>>> DONALD TRUMP DOES NOT WANT
ME TO BE A NOMINEE.
>> WE NEED A MASS
POLITICAL MOVEMENT.
>> NOT JUST TO GO TO WASHINGTON
BUT CHANGE IT BEFORE IT'S TOO
LATE.
>> I KNOW WHAT'S BROKEN IN THIS
COUNTRY. I KNOW HOW TO FIX IT.
>> THE STAKES COULD NOT BE
HIGHER.
>> WE NEED TO OUT EAT THEM
AND WIN.
>> I HAVE THE EXPERIENCE OF
WINNING IN RED, LIKE BLUE AND
PURPLE AREAS.
>>> TONIGHT IOWANS WILL BE THE
FIRST IN
THE NATION ON WHO COULD BE THE
NEXT PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED
STATES. IT'S CAUCUS NIGHT AND
ALL ACROSS GENTOO PEOPLE ARE
GATHERING TO PICK THEIR FAVORITE
CANDIDATE. THE QUESTION IS WHICH
CONTENDERS WILL LEAVE HERE WITH
MOMENTUM AND SUPPORT. YOU ARE
LOOKING LIVE AT TWO CAUCUS
VENUES WE WILL FOLLOW CLOSELY.
ONE AT DRAKE UNIVERSITY AND THE
OTHER IN THE WESTERN PART OF THE
STATE IN
COUNCIL BLUFFS. GOOD EVENING I'M
LIBBY CASEY. YOU ARE WATCHING
LIVE COVERAGE OF THE IOWA CAUCUS
FROM " THE WASHINGTON POST " .
WE ARE HERE AT THE IOWA EVENTS
CENTER HOME BASE FOR MUCH OF THE
MEDIA. JOINING ME THIS EVENING
ARE JAMES HOMAN NATIONAL
POLITICAL REPORTER, EUGENE SCOTT
POLITICAL REPORTER AND JIM
McCORMICK PROFESSOR OF POLITICAL
SCIENCE AT IOWA
STATE UNIVERSITY. THANK YOU TO
ALL OF YOU FOR BEING HERE.
EUGENE, WHAT IS ON THE LINE FOR
TONIGHT FOR THE CANDIDATES AND
THOSE WHO
WILL CAUCUS?
>>
FOR THE CANDIDATES IT DEPENDS ON
WHICH CANDIDATE YOU ARE TALKING
ABOUT. THERE ARE SOME CANDIDATES
WHO ARE NOT PERFORMING AS WELL
AS OTHERS. FOR THEM, THEY NEED A
STRONG SHOWING TONIGHT TO PROVE
TO VOTERS OUTSIDE OF IOWA THEY
HAVE WHAT IT TAKES TO BE THEIR
PARTY'S NOMINEE  AND TO GO UP
AGAINST THE PRESIDENT. IN TERMS
OF VOTERS ONE OF THE MAIN
CONVERSATIONS FROM THIS ELECTION
CYCLE HAS BEEN
ABOUT WHETHER IOWA SHOULD REMAIN
THE FIRST CONTENTS. FOR A FEW
REASONS.  THERE ARE QUESTIONS
ABOUT THE DIVERSIFYING COUNTRY
AND ESPECIALLY THE DIVERSIFYING
PARTY ON THE LEFT AND WHETHER OR
NOT IOWA  CAN ACCURATELY SHOULD
WE SAY,. A NOMINEE OR INFLUENCE
A NOMINEE TO THE DEGREE IT
CURRENTLY DOES. I THINK WE ARE
SEEING VOTERS HERE FIGHTING TO
MAKE A CASE THAT THEIR VOICES
NOT ONLY SHOULD BE HEARD BUT
SHOULD REMAIN ONE OF THE FIRST
VOICES.
>> JAMES WHAT ARE YOU WATCHING
FOR?
>> AFTER ONE YEAR, THE FIELD IS
WINDOWED AND IOWA HAS PLAYED THE
ROLE OF WINNOWING THE FIELD .
YOU THINK OF ALL THE CANDIDATES
WE
STARTED WITH, THE HISTORICALLY
DIVERSE FIELD AND HOW THERE ARE
FIVE, SIX COMPETITIVE CANDIDATES
TONIGHT. IT WILL WINNOW MORE. WE
THINK A LOT OF LANES AND
I THINK TONIGHT WE WILL KNOW WHO
IS THE DOMINANT FIGURE IN THE
ESTABLISHMENT LANE, THE MODERATE
LANE FOR THE LACK OF A BETTER
WORD IN THE LIBERAL LANE. THE
BIG THING TO WATCH IS
BERNIE SANDERS. HIS MOMENTUM AND
HE'S PERCEIVED AS STRONG WITHIN
AN ORGANIZATION. CAN HE DELIVER
THAT? HOW DOES HIS PERFORMANCE
TONIGHT COMPARED TO FOUR YEARS
AGO. HIS CAMPAIGN SAYS THEY HAVE
MORE PEOPLE
COMMITTED TO CAUCUS FOR HIM THAN
2016 WHEN IT WAS A TWO-WAY RACE.
A LOT OF US  WILL BE ON SANDERS
AND HOW HE DEALS, IF HE DOES
WELL WITH BEING A FRONT RUNNER
WHICH HE'S NEVER HAD TO DEAL
WITH BEFORE.
>> I EXPECT HAITIANS CREATE
THEIR OWN THINGS YOU'VE GOT TO
DO AND THEY CREATES
CHALLENGES. PROFESSOR, THE
UNIQUENESS OF THE IOWA CAUCUSES
SO DIFFERENT THAN WHAT HAPPENS
IN THE REST OF THE NATION.
>> IT REALLY IS. THE REAL
DIFFERENCES THAT INSTEAD OF JUST
GOING INTO A VOTING BOOTH
CASTING A BALLOT AND GOING HOME,
THIS IS A COMMUNITY MEETING. YOU
ACTUALLY TALK ABOUT THE
CANDIDATES AND THERE WILL BE A
DIFFERENT KIND OF PROCESS THIS
EVENING. YOU WILL HAVE THREE
DIFFERENT VOTES. IT'S REALLY
UNUSUAL
BECAUSE THE CAUCUSES HAVE NEVER
HAD THAT BEFORE. I THINK IT
REALLY DOES BRING OUT SORT OF
THE GRASSROOTS NATURE  OF WHAT
IOWANS ARE ABOUT AND WHAT THEY
REALLY WANT THE CAUCUSES TO BE.
I AM REALLY LOOKING FOR WHAT
KIND OF TURNOUT WE HAVE TONIGHT.
THIS IS A
DIFFERENT PROCESS. THERE IS A
LOT OF CANDIDATES. FRANKLY,
THERE'S A LOT AT STAKE AS JAMES
WAS JUST TALKING ABOUT. THE
DIFFERENCES BETWEEN AND AMONG
THE CANDIDATES IN TERMS OF WHERE
THEY WANT TO TAKE THE DIRECTION
OF THE COUNTRY. I THINK THAT'S A
KEY THAT WE WILL BE FOCUSING
ON TONIGHT.
>> IN A TRADITIONAL PRIMARY
POLLS WOULD BE CLOSING DOWN AND
WE WOULD GET RESULTS SOON AFTER
THAT IN THE CAUCUS IS JUST
BEGINNING OF THIS HOUR  AND
SINCE IT REALLY IS A FLUID
PROCESS OF DEBATE
AND DISCUSSION AND COULD HAVE
MORE THAN ONE ROUND. WE WON'T
GET ANY RESULTS FOR A WHILE. WE
KNOW THE RACE BETWEEN THE TOP
DEMOCRATIC CANDIDATES IS TIGHT
AND IT SHIFTED. LET'S LOOK AT
THAT. THIS IS THE WAPELLO
POLLING AVERAGES OF RECENT POLLS
IN THE PAST FEW WEEKS. BIDEN HAS
BEEN 22% SANDERS AT 20% ,
BUTTIGIEG 18% , WARREN 15% AND
KLOBUCHAR AT 9%. NEXT TUESDAY IS
THE NEW HAMPSHIRE PRIMARY AND
HERE ARE THE " THE WASHINGTON
POST "  SANDERS HAS BEEN LEADING
AT ROUGHLY 24%. BIDEN HAS BEEN
AT 16%. BUTTIGIEG CLOSE BEHIND
14%  WARREN AT 13 AND CLOSE ARE
COMING IN AT 6%. WHEN THE CAUCUS
RESULTS ARE COMING IN,  " THE
WASHINGTON POST " HAS A TEAM OF
EXPERTS IN OUR WASHINGTONS DUTY
MONITORING AND ANALYZING. WE
WILL CHECK IN WITH OUR ELECTION
INSIGHTS TEAM LED BY JEREMY
BOWERS. GOOD EVENING. WHAT DO
YOU EXPECT TO SEE TONIGHT?
>> LIBBY WE ARE EXCITED TO GET
THE FIRST RESULTS DOWN THE PIPE.
WE ARE REALLY LOOKING FOR WAYS
WE CAN BRING YOU
ADDITIONAL CONTEXT, MAYBE A PEEK
BEHIND THE CURTAIN WHERE WE CAN
SHOW YOU INTERESTING THINGS THAT
MAYBE WOULD NOT BE SO
IMMEDIATELY OBVIOUS IN THOSE
RESULTS. I'M NOT DOING THIS BY
MYSELF I HAVE A COPILOT. THIS IS
DAVID BYLER AN OPINION COLUMNIST
AND DATA ELEMENTS DONE
THOROUGHLY DECENT HUMAN BEING
HERE DAVID, WHAT YOU EXPECT TO
SEE IN THESE RESULTS TONIGHT?
>> I'M LOOKING FOR THREE THINGS,
FIRST I'M LOOKING FOR CANDIDATES
WHO ALL UPSETS. WE KNOW FROM
HISTORICAL DATA CANDIDATES WHO
OUTPERFORMED THEIR POLES OR
EXPECTATIONS THAT A BEEN SET
TEND TO GET A BOOST IN LATER
STATES LIKE
NEW HAMPSHIRE AND OTHERS DOWN
THE CALENDAR. I'M LOOKING FOR
CANDIDATES WHO HAVE PUT A LOT ON
THIS RACE I'M THINKING AMY
KLOBUCHAR BEATING BUTTIGIEG THE
CANDIDATE WHO WANTS TO DO WELL
IN IOWA  BUT DOESN'T DO AS WELL
NATIONALLY AS THEY DO IN THE
STATE. FINALLY, I'M LOOKING AT
THE LOWER TIER CANDIDATES. IT'S
EASY TO FORGET THERE ARE
CANDIDATES THROUGH ARE STILLNESS
RACE. IOWA IS THE KEY STATE
THAT WINDOWS THE FIELD AGAINST
THE FINALISTS.
>> SPEAKING OF THE FINALISTS WE
HAVE A LONG WAY TO GO UNTIL THE
NOMINATION BUT IN THE MEANTIME
WE HAVE A LOT OF INTERESTING
WAYS TO GET YOU INSIGHTS AND
THOSE RESULTS. JOIN ME IN THE
STUDIO IS THIS ENTIRE TEAM OF
DEVELOPERS, DESIGNERS, A
DATA SCIENTIST
. WE GOT AN ENTIRE GROUP OF
PEOPLE WHOSE ONLY JOB IT IS TO
HELP YOU GET MORE INSIGHT INTO
THOSE RESULTS. WE HAVE SOME FUN
TOOLS. WE HAVE THE START SCREEN
THAT'S FUN WHERE I CAN SHOW YOU
THE REAL COUNTY LEVEL RESULTS AS
THEY COME AND LIVE AT THE SAME
SPEED THEY COME TO OUR WEBSITE.
WE'VE GOT MORE THAN JUST THAT.
WE HAVE SOME INSIGHT FROM
INDIVIDUAL FOLKS WHO ARE SHARP
AND ON THE BALL. SPEAKING OF
SHARP AND ON THE BALL WE HAVE
LENNY BRONNER A SENIOR
DATA SCIENTIST. TALK TO ME ABOUT
THE DIFFERENCE BETWEEN 2016 AND
2020 AND IT COMES TO THIS
DEMOCRATIC CAUCUS.
>> THANK YOU FOR HAVING ME THE
DIFFERENCE IN 2016
IS THAT IT ONLY HAD TWO
CANDIDATES COMPETING IT WAS
BERNIE SANDERS VERSUS HILLARY
CLINTON. I'M GOING TO LOOK OUT
FOR HOW MANY SUPPORTERS BERNIE
SANDERS CAN RETAIN AND WE ARE
HILLARY CLINTON VOTERS MY GOAL
THIS YEAR.
>> THAT'S INTERESTING THE THING
WE ARE WATCHING OF THOSE LANES.
WHERE THE PROGRESSIVE VOTERS
GOING AND WHERE ARE THE
ESTABLISHMENTS GOING. WE HAVE
ALL OF THAT UP YEAR ON THE BOARD
IN REALTIME AS IT BECOMES
AVAILABLE. FOR NOW, WE WILL TOSS
IT BACK TO LIBBY IN IOWA.
>> THANK YOU JEREMY. HOW MUCH
COMPLICATED IS IT TO CRUNCH THE
NUMBERS ON A PRIMARY NIGHT?
>> WE ARE GETTING THREE
DIFFERENT SETS OF RESULTS WHICH
IS MAKING OUR JOB MORE
DIFFICULT. WE ARE GETTING THESE
FIRST ALIGNMENT NUMBERS THAT
FOLKS HAVE BEEN TALKING ABOUT.
THE INITIAL VOTES THAT SHOW UP
WHEN SOMEONE COMES TO A PRIMARY
LOCATION. WE HAVE
SECOND ALIGNMENT RESULTS WHICH
ARE WHAT HAPPENS AFTER WE HAVE A
LIABILITY STANDARDS. FINALLY, WE
GET THE STATE DELEGATES
EQUIVALENTS THAT WILL TURN INTO
DELEGATES LATER THIS IS
DIFFICULT
FOR US THAT IT MAKES ELECTION
NERDS LIKE ME HAPPY BECAUSE IT
MEANS WE HAVE EXTRA STUFF TO
TELL PEOPLE ABOUT. WE WILL TAKE
IT BACK TO YOU.
>> THANK YOU JEREMY. I LOVE YOU
DOING THAT. WE GET TO SEE HOW
THE SAUSAGE IS MADE. THESE
PEOPLE DO THIS WORK AT " THE
WASHINGTON POST " AND WE DIRECT
THEM IN FRONT OF THE CAMERAS AND
THEY WILL SHOW US EVERYTHING ,
IN ALL OF ITS GLORY.  IS YOU'VE
TRAVELED AROUND IOWA , HOW
HEAVILY ARE THEY WEIGHING THE
RESPONSIBLE OF WHAT IT MEANS TO
BE FIRST? BOX SIGNIFICANTLY AND
I THINK WE'VE SEEN SOME
REPORTING IN DIFFERENT ARTICLES
IN THE POST THERE IS AN
AWARENESS THERE ARE ISSUES THAT
VOTERS CARE ABOUT, THAT PERHAPS
AREN'T INCREDIBLY WELL
REPRESENTED POPULATION -WISE IN
IOWA. FOR EXAMPLE,  I REMEMBER
GOING TO A PETE BUTTIGIEG  EVENT
AND A WHITE VOTER, WHITE MALE
ASKED ABOUT BLACK WOMEN
MORTALITY ISSUES RELATED TO
MATERNITY, RIGHT. WE DO HAVE
DATA SHOWING THAT BLACK WOMEN
FACE HIGHER CASES OF DANGER AND
HEALTH ISSUES AND BIRTHING AND
DELIVERY PROCESS, WHITE WOMEN
OVERALL. THESE ARE ISSUES THAT
PEOPLE ARE TALKING ABOUT WHEN
THEY LOOK AT HEALTHCARE MORE
BROADLY. I'VE SEEN OLDER VOTERS
ASK ABOUT THE STUDENT DEBT
CRISIS. OTHER THINGS QUESTIONS
ABOUT THE WAR AND THE IDEAS
OTHER FEARS OF WAR AND HOW COULD
THAT AFFECT AMERICANS IN OTHER
PARTS OF
THE COUNTRY. THERE IS A REAL
SENSE THERE ARE A LOT OF
INDIVIDUALS THAT HAVE TO HAVE
CONCERNS REPRESENTING BROUGHT TO
THE TABLE AND IOWA AND VOTERS
ARE DOING THAT.
>> CONFESSOR, LEAVE HER TO
CRITIQUE OF IOWA  IS WHITE AND
OLDER STATE EVEN THE PRESIDENT
CANDIDATES LIKE JULIAN CASTRO
RAISE CONCERNS ABOUT IOWA
GETTING THIS FIRST CRACK.
>> HE DID HE SAID MAYBE THEY
SHOULDN'T HAVE THE FIRST NATION
CAUCUS SET IN HERE BUT I THINK
WE'VE JUST HEARD HEAR WHAT
EUGENE WAS TALKING ABOUT, THE
KIND OF CONCERN THAT IOWANS HAVE
THEY ARE VERY EDUCATED
POPULATION. THEY ARE VERY
INTERESTED IN
NATIONAL POLITICS AND I THINK
WHAT OF COURSE THE CAUCUSES
BRING OUT ARE THE ACTIVISTS
WITHIN THE PARTY. THEY ARE VERY
MUCH ALERT TO NOT ONLY THE LOCAL
ISSUES AND AGRICULTURE,
OBVIOUSLY THAT'S THE TOP AND THE
TRADE ISSUE, IN TERMS OF THE
USMCA OR THE FIRST PHASE OF THE
CHINA AGREEMENT A REALLY SORT OF
NUMBER ONE ISSUES BUT ALSO
IOWANS ARE CONCERNED ABOUT
CLIMATE CHANGE. JUST WITHIN THIS
PAST YEAR WE HAVE A GREAT DEAL
OF FLOODING IN WESTERN IOWA. WE
HAVE HAD OVER THE DECADES
REALLY, SERIOUS FLOODING. OF
COURSE THAT IS RELATED TO
CLIMATE CHANGE. I THINK IOWANS
ARE ALERT TO THESE ISSUES. THEY
ARE ATTENTIVE
AND EDUCATED. IN THAT SENSE, I
THINK THAT THEY CAN REALLY SPEAK
TO SOME OF THE ISSUES AT THE
NATIONAL LEVEL. IT IS NOT JUST
KIND OF INSULAR, FLYOVER STATE
THAT WE SOMETIMES HEAR. THEY ARE
REALLY ENGAGED. I THINK THAT
MAKES THE CAUCUSES IN THE
PROCESS DIFFERENT .
EFFECT THAT THEY CAN CHALLENGE
SOME OF THESE CANDIDATES AS YOU
ARE JUST SAYING WITH SOME OF
THESE ISSUES, MAYBE THESE
CANDIDATES HAVEN'T THOUGHT ABOUT
THESE ISSUES AND NOW THERE PUT
ON THE SPOT TO COME BACK WITH A
RESPONSE. I THINK THAT IS THE
MERIT OF THIS PROCESS.
>> ITSELF OR FOR THE CANDIDATES,
IF THEY DON'T GET ASKED THESE
QUESTIONS NOW AND WORK OUT THEIR
ANSWERS THEY WILL GET THEM IN
NEVADA AND SOUTH CAROLINA AND
FURTHER ON. IT'S A GREAT PLACE
TO WORKSHOP YOUR ANSWERS.
>> LET'S TAKE A MOMENT TO
OUTLINE WHAT WILL BE A VERY BUSY
FEW WEEKS IN THE 2020 RACE.
THERE ARE SEVERAL CONTESTS
LEADING UP TO NOW WHAT
IS MASSIVE SUPER TUESDAY
TONIGHT'S IOWA CAUCUS 41 PLEDGE
DELEGATES ARE UP FOR GRABS. NEXT
TUESDAY, THE NEW HAMPSHIRE
PRIMARY HAS ANOTHER 24 DELEGATES
AT STAKE. AFTER THAT IS NEVADA'S
CAUCUS SATURDAY,
FEBRUARY 22, 36 DELEGATES THERE.
SOUTH CAROLINA'S PRIMARY IS THE
FOLLOWING SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 29.
54 DELEGATES AVAILABLE ALL THIS
TO EMPHASIZE HOW BIG SUPER
TUESDAY WILL BE THIS YEAR ON
MARCH 3 AND THAT ONE
DAY, 1357 DEMOCRATIC DELEGATES
WILL BE UP FOR GRABS. THAT'S
ABOUT A THIRD OF ALL THE
DELEGATES. KEEP IN MIND THE
CANDIDATES ARE TRYING TO REACH A
MAGIC NUMBER OF 1990 DELEGATES
TO SECURE THE NOMINATION IN
THEIR CONVENTION IN MILWAUKEE IN
JULY. JAMES, THIS QUESTION OF
JUST HOW IOWA WILL INFLUENCE
THINGS IS IMPORTANT BECAUSE WE
LOOKED AT THE DELEGATE COUNT.
I'D LOVE TO HEAR FROM YOU, THE
SIGNIFICANCE OF THE DELEGATE
COUNT BUT THE INFLUENCE THAT
JUST GOING FORWARD HAS AND HOW
IT WILL SET
THE TONE.
>> IT ABSOLUTELY SETS THE TONE.
IT'S IMPORTANT BECAUSE IOWANS
GET THAT PICTURE WHAT EUGENE WAS
TALKING ABOUT AND THEY WERE
ASKING BUTTIGIEG ABOUT HE IS
STRUGGLING WITH AFRICAN-AMERICAN
VOTERS IN SOUTH CAROLINA . ONE
OF THE THINGS THAT'S BEEN THIS
IS MY FOURTH IOWA CAUCUS.
COMPARED TO THE OTHER THREE,
ELECTABILITY IS THE FIXATION OF
VOTERS ACROSS THE IDEOLOGICAL
SPECTRUM. PEOPLE ARE SO SHOCKED
BY DONALD TRUMP'S VICTORY IN
2016 AND FOR A LOT OF PEOPLE ON
THE LEFT THEY WERE SO TAKEN
ABACK BY IT THAT THEY WANT TO BE
TRUMP. THEY REALLY DON'T LIKE
HIM.
THEY WANT LIBERAL PEOPLE WHO ARE
WILLING TO SUPPORT THE CANDIDATE
THEY VIEW AS
MOST DELECTABLE
>> THEY ARE NOT JUST THINKING
ABOUT HOW THEIR FELLOW IOWANS
WILL VOTE BUT THE NATION.
>> THEY ARE THINKING ABOUT
CLIMATE CHANGE AND WHO CAN DO
SOMETHING ABOUT CLIMATE CHANGE
NOT JUST ACROSS THE SUPER
TUESDAY STATES. IT'S BEEN
FASCINATING BECAUSE ALL
THE CANDIDATES IN THE CLOSING
DAYS ARE PUT EMPHASIS ON WHY
THEY CAN WIN AND WHY THEY ARE
MOST DELECTABLE. SOME ARGUMENTS
ARE MORE DUBIOUS BUT THEY ALL
MAKE THE CASE. IT'S BECAUSE
THESE IOWA CAUCUS GOERS MANY OF
WHOM HAVE REMAINED ON DECIDED
ARE HOLDING UP BECAUSE THEY'RE
TRYING TO DECIDE WHO'S THE MOST
DELECTABLE. I SPOKE TO A WOMAN
YESTERDAY, A HIGH SCHOOL TEACHER
IN OSCEOLA. SHE CAUCUSED FOR
BERNIE SANDERS LAST TIME. THIS
TIME SHE NARROWED IT DOWN TO
FOUR AND THEN TWO. YESTERDAY SHE
WATCHED A PETE BUTTIGIEG AND
ELIZABETH WARREN RALLY AND
DECIDED TO SUPPORT ELIZABETH
WARREN  SHE THINKS SHE CAN
WINDOW. SHE WAS TALKING ABOUT
WARREN BEING THE FIRST WOMAN
PRESIDENT IN HER PLANT SHE
WEIGHED ALL OF
THIS STUFF AND IT'S A REFLECTION
OF HOW SHE TAKE THIS
RESPONSIBILITY AS A VOTER. THERE
ARE PEOPLE, AT THE WARREN
RALEIGH I TALKED TO SOMEONE WHO
I SAID ELIZABETH WARREN SHE'S MY
FIFTH CHOICE. AND SO YOU'VE RUN
INTO A LOT OF PEOPLE IN THEY'VE
GOT ASK QUESTIONS NOW. NOT JUST
BECAUSE THEY WILL COME UP LATER
BUT ALSO BECAUSE CANDIDATES
AREN'T ACCESSIBLE. THIS IS THE
MOST ACCESSIBLE THE CANDIDATES
WILL BE TO REAL PEOPLE. ONCE YOU
HAVE SUPER TUESDAY WHERE HALF
THE DELEGATES ARE UP FOR GRABS,
YOU ARE JUST RUNNING TELEVISION
ADS. HERE THEY HAVE TO DEAL WITH
THE VOTERS IN ANSWER QUESTIONS.
>> WE HAVE REPORTERS ACROSS IOWA
TONIGHT AND SOME OF THOSE CAUCUS
SITES WATCHING WHAT'S GOING ON.
JUST A COUPLE MILES DOWN THE
ROAD HANNA JEWELL IS AT DRAKE
UNIVERSITY WHICH IS A HUB FOR
POLITICAL ACTIVITY.
>> Reporter: THAT'S RIGHT I'M
HERE AT DRAKE UNIVERSITY IN A
PRECINCT WHICH INCLUDES HOUSING
FOR DRAKE UNIVERSITY IN A BERING
STRAITS. A CAUCUS CAN BE A FEW
PEOPLE IN THE LIVING ROOM BUT AS
I CAN SEE THAT'S NOT THE CASE.
THERE ARE HUNDREDS HERE IN THE
ENERGY IS HIGH. PREACHING
CAPTAINS ARE LEADING CHEERS FOR
THE LAST HALF HOUR. IT'S LIKE A
FOOTBALL GAME. PARTY BUSINESS IS
UNDERWAY AND EVERYONE IS SIGNED
IN AND THE DOORS ARE CLOSED. IF
YOU WANT TO CAUCUS YOU HAVE TO
BE ON TIME AND IN THE ROOM BY 7
PM. AFTER SOME SPEECHES AND SOME
BUSINESS, PEOPLE WILL FILTER
INTO THE DESIGNATED AREAS FOR
THEIR FIRST CHOICE CANDIDATE.
AFTER THAT, THERE WILL BE A
REALIGNMENT IN WHICH THE
PRECINCT CAPTAINS FIGHT OVER IT
A BIT THAT WILL BE A KEY MOMENT
IN DELEGATES WILL BE APPORTIONED
AFTER THE FINAL ALIGNMENT. I WAS
TALKING TO A STUDENT WHO SAID IT
WAS NOT HARD TO GET HER FRIENDS
DOWN TO CAUCUS EVEN THOUGH ARE
THEY ARE NOT POLITICALLY
ENGAGED. THIS IS WHERE THEIR
FRIENDS ARE ANYWAY SO THEY
THOUGHT TO COME TOO. WE WILL SEE
WHERE THEY END UP. A LOT OF
DIFFERENT LEVELS OF EXCITEMENT
AND COMMITMENT OF PEOPLE WHO
HAVE BEEN WORKING ON CAMPAIGNS
AND THEY BEEN STUDENTS AND THOSE
WHO COME BECAUSE THEIR FRIENDS
ARE HERE. IT'S AN UNUSUAL FORM
OF DEMOCRACY TO BE SURE. IT'S
ONE THAT MAKES PEOPLE WONDER WHY
WE DO IT THIS WAY, WHY IOWA.
>> WE SPOKE TO IOWANS TO FIND
OUT WHAT IS LIKE TO BE FIRST IN
THE NATION. LET'S TAKE
A LOOK.
>> WHAT IS IOWA IN ONE WORD?
PARK REAL.
>> IDEA WAS OUR KIND.
>> KNOWLEDGEABLE.
>> COMMITTED.
>> EXCITED.
>> Reporter: THE IOWA CAUCUS OF
THE
FIRST TEST CANDIDATES FACE WHEN
THEY RUN FOR THEIR PARTY'S
NOMINATION.
>> IF YOU WANT TO SEE IF AGAIN
IT IS VIABLE IOWA IS THE PLACE.
>> Reporter: THE STATE HAS BEEN
FIRST IN THE NATION SINCE 1972
IN A 1976
JIMMY CARTER'S SMALL CAMPAIGN
WOULD LAUNCH THE NATIONAL
PROMINENCE BECAUSE OF HIS
SUCCESS IN IOWA.
>> CAN YOU IMAGINE ANY OF THE
CANDIDATES FOR PRESIDENT WORKING
IN THE HOT AUGUST SUN?
>> IOWA IS A GOOD EVEN PLAYING
FIELD I THINK. WE'VE GOT MEDIA
MARKETS THAT ARE SMALL.
>> DOES THAT MEAN IT'S NOT THAT
EXPENSIVE?
>> THAT'S A GOOD WAY TO PUT IT.
>> IT'S EASIER TO BE ON THE
GROUND IN IOWA.
>> EXACTLY, WE ARE GOOD-SIZED
STATE WITH 3 MILLION PEOPLE. YOU
CAN GET FROM BORDER TO BORDER IN
ABOUT FOUR OR FIVE HOURS NORTH
TO SOUTH.
>> Reporter: WE SPOKE TO DRAKE
UNIVERSITY CLUB MEMBERS ABOUT
WHAT MAKES THEIR STATE
DIFFERENCE.
>> IOWANS PUT CANDIDATES THROUGH
THE RINGER.
>> PEOPLE ARE EASIER TO LEARN
HERE AND THEY WILL ASK EVERY
QUESTION AND TAKE IT SERIOUSLY.
THAT'S MY OPINION.
>> Reporter: FOR ALL ITS PASSION
IOWA IS NOT A
REPRESENTATIVE STATE. ACCORDING
TO THE UNITED STATES CENSUS
BUREAU THE STATE IS OVER 90%
WHITE WHICH LEAD SOME PEOPLE
TO ASK, SHOULD A LESS DIVERSE
STATE HAVE SO MUCH POLITICAL
INFLUENCE IN A DIVERSIFYING
COUNTRY?
>> I DON'T BELIEVE FOREVER WE
SHOULD
BE MARRIED TO IOWA AND NEW
HAMPSHIRE GOING FIRST.
>> Reporter: HISTORICALLY
SPEAKING IOWA DOES PICK WINNERS.
>> EXCEPT FOR THE YEAR CANDIDATE
FROM IOWA WAS PARTICIPATING ,
EVERY PRESIDENT SINCE 1972 HAS
FINISHED IN THE TOP THREE IN THE
IOWA CAUCUSES.
>> Reporter: THIS IS A TEST
OF THEIR MESSAGE, THEIR
ORGANIZATION AND THE PASSION OF
THEIR VOTERS. IT'S WHERE BARACK
OBAMA GOT THE MOMENTUM THAT
LAUNCHED HIM TO
THE PRESIDENCY.
>> THANK YOU IOWA.
>> Reporter: WITH SO MANY
COMPETING FOR THE
DEMOCRATIC NOMINATION IOWANS
HAVE A HUGE TASK AT HAND AND
THEY WILL LIKELY PUT AN END TO
SOME LESS SUCCESSFUL CAMPAIGNS.
SOME OF THE STUDENTS IN THAT
VIDEO HERE TONIGHT AND WE WILL
TRY TO GRAB
THEM LATER.  OF YOU ARE
VOLUNTEERING FOR THE PETE
BUTTIGIEG CAMPAIGN AND THEY ARE
EXCITED AND THEY WERE VERY
ANXIOUS EARLIER.  EVERYONE IS
STRESSED BUT IN A KIND OF FUN,
COLLEGE WAY. THINGS WILL GET
BUSY HERE AND VERY LOUD. WE WILL
KEEP AN EYE ON WHAT'S HAPPENING
IN COME BACK TO YOU SOON.
>> THANK YOU. THE POST
JOYCE KOH HAS FOLLOWED THE RACE
ALL WINTER LONG BACK IN THE FALL
IN THE SUMMER AND SHE IS NOW IN
COUNCIL BLUFFS. WHY HAS THAT
AREA BEEN A FOCUS FOR THE
CANDIDATES?
>> Reporter: LIBBY, CANDIDATES
HAVE BEEN IN COUNCIL BLUFFS FOR
MONTHS IN THE LEAD UP TO THE
CAUCUSES. EVEN IN THE LAST WEEK
WE'VE SEEN SEVERAL CANDIDATES
COME AND HOLD EVENTS, JOE BIDEN,
PETE
BUTTIGIEG , ANDREW YANG AND AMY
KLOBUCHAR WERE HERE HAVING
EVENTS TO REACH THE VOTERS OUT
IN SOUTHWEST IOWA. THEY ALSO ALL
HAVE DEVOTED FIELD OFFICES HERE
AS WELL. THEY ARE ALL TRYING TO
REACH THIS POPULATION OF MORE
RURAL VOTERS IN IOWA. AS FAR AS
DEMOCRATS, WE'VE SEEN HISTORY
SHOW THAT THERE REALLY IS NO
CLEAR PREFERENCE. IN 2016,
BERNIE SANDERS TOOK THIS AREA
AND IN 2008,
HILLARY CLINTON WON IN COUNCIL
BLUFFS. WE WILL SEE IF IT'S
ANOTHER GOOD NIGHT FOR BERNIE
SANDERS OR IF ANOTHER CANDIDATE
ENDS UP TAKING THE WIN.
LIBBY.
>> JOYCE, OUR PEOPLE DECIDED ON
WHO THEY WILL VOTE FOR TONIGHT?
>> Reporter: IT'S INTERESTING,
IN LARGE PART PEOPLE ARE
MOTIVATED TO COME OUT AND CAUCUS
BECAUSE THEY WANT TO REMOVE
TRUMP FROM OFFICE AND GET
ANOTHER PRESIDENT IN THE
OVAL OFFICE. THAT IS THE NUMBER
ONE MOTIVATOR FOR A LOT OF THESE
DEMOCRATIC CAUCUS THERE'S. THE
ONES WE SPOKEN TO HAVE ONE OR
TWO CANDIDATES AT THE TOP OF
THEIR LIST BUT MANY HAVE SAID
THEY ARE WILLING TO BE PERSUADED
ONE WAY OR ANOTHER TONIGHT. IT
WILL BE INTERESTING TO SEE WHAT
HAPPENS. WE DID GET TO SPEAK TO
SOME PEOPLE HERE IN COUNCIL
BLUFFS EARLY THIS WEEK. TAKE A
LISTEN TO WHAT THEY SAID.
>> I'M VOTING BERNIE SANDERS.
AUTHENTICITY AND I TRUST HIM.
ANYONE IN CONGRESS IN THE HOUSE
AND THE SENATE IS MY NUMBER ONE
GUY. BERNIE'S RECORD HAS BEEN
THE MOST CONSISTENT OUT OF ANY
BODY IN THE RACE RIGHT NOW. YOU
KNOW HE IS ELECTED IN THE HOUSE
IN 1990. AND I TRUST
HIM TO, IF I WERE IN A CAR I
WOULD STAND ON THE SIDE OF THE
ROAD AND HE WOULD HELP ME
>> I'VE BEEN WITH AMY SINCE
AUGUST. I'VE HAD A CHANCE TO SEE
HER AT A FORM IN SIOUX CITY. I
HAD THE UNIQUE OPPORTUNITY TO
SIT WITH HER FOR AN HOUR AND
HALF COFFEE. SHE IS THE REAL
DEAL. ONE THING THAT ATTRACTED
ME TO SENATOR KLOBUCHAR IS SHE
GAVE US CONCRETE EXAMPLES OF
WHAT SHE HAS DONE AS A UNITED
STATES SENATOR. THE 100 BILLS
PASSED, BEING IN THE MINORITY,
THAT IS QUITE AN
AMAZING FEAT.
>> WHY IS THAT?
>> I JUST LIKE HER NO-NONSENSE
ATTITUDE TOWARDS THINGS AND THE
FACT THAT I FIND HER VERY
REALISTIC. I GENUINELY THINK
SHE'S A GOOD PERSON AND I THINK
SHE IS INTELLIGENT. SHE SPEAKS
WELL. I BELIEVE SHE SPEAKS FOR
NOT JUST YOU KNOW, THE
1%.
>> Reporter: TO GIVE YOU SOME
GEOGRAPHIC CONTEXT OF WHERE
COUNCIL BLUFFS IS, IT'S NEXT TO
OMAHA ON THE OTHER SIDE OF THE
RIVER. IT HUGS THE NEBRASKA-IOWA
STATE LINE. IT'S A MORE RURAL
AND SUBURBAN AREA
OF IOWA BUT IT ALSO HAS THIS
METROPOLITAN INFLUENCE FROM ITS
PROXIMITY TO OMAHA. ANOTHER
THING TO MENTION IS THAT IN
COUNCIL BLUFFS IT HAS A HIGHER
REGISTRATION RATE AMONG AFRICAN
AMERICAN VOTERS AND ELSEWHERE IN
THE STATE. THAT'S AN INTERESTING
THING TO NOTE AS FAR AS WHY SO
MANY DEMOCRATIC CANDIDATES HAVE
BEEN IN THIS AREA TRYING TO
REACH VOTERS HERE. BEFORE I SEND
IT BACK TO YOU I WANT TO MENTION
THAT PEOPLE HAVE STARTED TO GET
IN LINE, THEY ARE STARTING TO
FILL OUT THEIR CARDS AND SUBMIT
THEM FOR THE FIRST ALIGNMENT SO
THINGS WILL GET GOING AS WE HEAD
INTO THE NIGHT. WE WILL BRING
YOU MORE UPDATES AS AN EYE
CONTINUES. LIBBY.
>>
GREAT, JOYCE. THANK YOU. EUGENE,
THE VOTERS THAT JOYCE SPOKE TO
SOUNDED FIRM IN WHO THEY LIKE.
THERE ARE SO MANY VOTERS WHO
SAID THEY ARE UNDECIDED AND THAT
THEY ARE -- WHAT ARE THEY
WAITING FOR? AS YOU SPOKE TO
PEOPLE DID YOU GET A SENSE OF
WHEN THE MOMENT OF TRUTH MIGHT
BE FOR A LOT OF PEOPLE?
>> A GOOD NUMBER IMPLIED THE
MOMENT OF TRUTH WOULD NOT COME
UNTIL TONIGHT. I SPOKE WITH
FOLKS WHO SAID THEY NARROW
THINGS DOWN TO THEIR TOP TWO OR
THREE. THEY WERE STILL LISTENING
AND WAITING FOR ANSWERS FROM THE
CANDIDATES. I THINK COUNCIL
BLUFFS IS AN INTERESTING PLACE
TO LOOK AT. I WAS AT EIGHT
BUTTIGIEG EVENT THERE FRIDAY AND
ONE REASONS I'M FASCINATED AT
WHAT CAN HAPPEN IN A PLACE AS
COUNCIL BLUFFS IS
BECAUSE WE PAID ATTENTION IN
2016 AND 22 INTO THE SUBURBS. WE
KNOW DONALD TRUMP WON THE
SUBURBS IN 2016 AND 2018 THE
LEFT WON THE SUBURBS. IT WILL BE
INTERESTING TO SEE WHAT THE
SUBURBS WANT IN 2020, IF THEY'RE
LOOKING FOR SOMETHING MORE
PRAGMATIC AND MODERATE. IF THEY
WANT SOMETHING A LITTLE MORE YOU
KNOW NONCONVENTIONAL AND
REVOLUTIONARY LIKE SOME OF THESE
CANDIDATES ON THE LEFT ARE
PROMPTING OR IF THEY WILL GO TO
TRUMP AGAIN.
>> PROFESSOR,
WE HEARD HOW THE CAUCUS WORKS
AND HOW THIS PROCESS GOES CAN
YOU JUST DIG INTO THIS FOR US IF
YOU WALK INTO THE CAUCUS SITE
AND YOU'VE GOT A FIRST CHOICE
HOW MUCH ARE YOU STILL THINKING
OVER YOUR SECOND CHOICE OR THIRD
CHOICE OR YOUR OTHER OPTIONS?
>> IT WILL BE DIFFERENT THIS
YEAR. WHEN YOU MAKE THE FIRST
CHOICE, IF YOUR CANDIDATE GETS
15%, YOU CANNOT CHANGE YOUR
SELECTION. IN PAST CAUCUSES,
GOING BACK TO 1972, THERE WAS
MUCH MORE OF A SORT OF A CHAOTIC
PROCESS. THAT WAS WITHIN THE
CAUCUSES, YOU COULD COME IN WITH
YOUR FIRST CHOICE DIVIDED UP.
MAYBE, THERE WOULD BE A 15
MINUTE REARRANGEMENT KIND OF
PROCESS. THAT WAS NOT THE
FINAL ONE. IF THERE WERE STILL
SOME UNDECIDED PEOPLE YOU WOULD
STILL BE TRYING TO COERCE THEM.
ONE OF THE PAYOFFS IS NOT A
MONETARY PAYOFF BUT IN FACT,
BEING A DELEGATE TO THE COLONY
CONVENTION. WHAT
HAPPENS AT CAUCUSES IS THAT YOU
ELECT PEOPLE TO GO TO THE COUNTY
CONVENTION  IN THIS WHOLE
PROCESS. THAT WAS ONE OF THE
TICKETS THAT YOU KIND OF HELD
OUT TO TRY TO BRING SOMEBODY
INTO YOUR 15% OR PLUS 15%. THIS
YEAR WILL BE DIFFERENT. FIRST
TIME YOU MAKE A CHOICE YOU ARE
STUCK WITH THAT. UNLESS YOUR
CANDIDATE DOES NOT GET 15%. IF
YOUR CANDIDATE DOES NOT GET 15%,
THEN ON THE SECOND GO AROUND YOU
CAN MAKE ANOTHER CHOICE. BUT
THEN IF YOU ARE STILL STUCK
WITHOUT A CANDIDATE WITH 15%,
YOU CAN
GO HOME.
>> WE WILL TALK ABOUT THE NIGHT
OF HOW THE PROCESS WORKS. IT'S
FASCINATING TO THOSE OF US
OUTSIDE IOWA.  ONE THING WE HEAR
FROM PEOPLE IS I WANT TO FIND
SOMEONE WHO CAN BEAT PRESIDENT
DONALD TRUMP. ELECTABILITY IS
KEY AND IT SOUNDS LIKE A
NO-BRAINER, OF COURSE BUT IT'S
NOT BECAUSE IT'S SO SIGNIFICANT.
THEY ARE NOT SAYING I WANT
SOMEONE WHO IS STRONG IN XYZ.
THEY MAY CONSIDER IT BUT IT
SEEMS LIKE ELECTABILITY IS
JUST OUTSIZED COMPARED TO WHAT
WE'VE SEEN IN PAST YEARS.
>> THE IOWANS ARE STRATEGIC
VOTERS. ONE OF THE THINGS IS
THEY ARE LOOKING AT HEAD-TO-HEAD
MATCHUP. IT'S FUNNY. AT
BIDEN RALLIES THEY WILL PUT UP
POWERPOINT SLIDES THAT SHOW HOW
JOE BIDEN DOES IN MATCH UPS
AGAIN PRESIDENT DONALD TRUMP AND
BERNIE SANDERS BECAUSE THEY'RE
IS SUCH A CONCERN
ABOUT ELECTABILITY. WE WILL DO
THE SAME AND POINT TO SPECIFIC
FULL WHERE HE SPEEDING DONALD
TRUMP. THERE IS A LOT OF
STRATEGIC THINKING GOING IN BUT
DURING THE CAUCUSES IT'S A
COMMUNITY MEETING ON THE
PRIMARY. ONE OF THE THINGS THIS
WEEKEND, THE DES MOINES REGISTER
WAS GOING TO PUT OUT THE FINAL
IOWA POLL SATURDAY NIGHT, IT'S
CONSIDERED THE
GOLD STANDARD. IT'S FUN FOR US
BECAUSE WE ARE POLITICAL JUNKIES
AND WE WANT TO SEE IT. BELIEVE
IT OR NOT, I RAN INTO VOTERS. I
WENT TO SIX RALLIES YESTERDAY.
YOU RUN INTO A LOT OF VOTERS --
>> PLEDGING.
>> THEY WERE UPSET THEY COULD
NOT SEE THE POLLS.
>> THAT WOULD HAVE INFLUENCE
THEM ON ELECTABILITY AND WHO
THEIR NEIGHBORS
ARE THINKING.
>> IF BIDEN IS FADING DO I THEN
GO TO BUTTIGIEG.  PEOPLE WANT TO
GET BEHIND THE WINNER. THERE'S A
BANDWAGON ELEMENT AND THAT
HAPPENS WHEN YOU'RE IN THESE
ROOMS. YOU CAN REALLY SEE IT.
YOU MIGHT HAVE PEOPLE WHO KIND
OF LIKE AND I DON'T WANT TO PICK
A SPECIFIC CANDIDATE BECAUSE WE
DON'T KNOW BUT YOU CAN THINK OF
PAST YEARS WHERE MAYBE I REALLY
LIKED CHRIS DODD AND THEN ALL OF
A SUDDEN THERE ARE FIVE OF YOUR
NEIGHBORS BUT THERE ARE 50
PEOPLE OVER WITH BARACK OBAMA
CREW AND 30 ARE WITH JOHN
EDWARDS. YOU SAY, OH MY FRIENDS
ARE WITH
OBAMA AND THERE IS DEFINITELY
HORSETRADING WITH DELEGATES BUT
IT REALLY IS A COMMUNITY
MEETING. IT'S NOT A SECRET
BALLOT. WE ARE SO ACCUSTOMED TO
THINKING OF A SECRET BALLOT. ALL
OF THOSE CALCULATIONS WAY ON
PEOPLE. IN SOME WAYS IT HOLDS
PEOPLE ACCOUNTABLE BECAUSE IT
MAKES PEOPLE THINK EXTRA HARD
LIKE IS THIS SOMEONE I CAN BE
PROUD ENOUGH TO
PUBLICLY SUPPORT. IT'S GOING AND
STANDING IN SOMEONE'S CORNER AT
ONE OF THESE EVENTS LIKE WE ARE
SEEING WITH OUR CORRESPONDENCE
IN THE FIELD. IT REALLY IS
TAKING A
STAND.
>> LITERALLY.
>> ONE OF THE REASONS I KNOW
THAT SOME VOTERS I SPOKE WITH
THIS MORNING REALLY WANTED TO
SEE THAT POLL IS BECAUSE A LOT
OF PEOPLE AREN'T TALKING HAS
OPENLY WITH THEIR NEIGHBORS AND
CHURCH MEMBERS AND FAMILY ABOUT
POLITICS RIGHT NOW. I'VE TALKED
TO VOTERS WHO SAY THEY FOUND IT
TO BE SO DIVISIVE AND THEY WERE
SO SCARED OF JUST CAUSING
TENSION WITH PEOPLE THEY CARE
ABOUT THAT THEY HAVE NOT BEEN
ASKING DIRECTLY, WHO ARE YOU
BACKING IN THE WAYS WE HAVE IN
THE PAST. IFAD DIFFERENT IDEA OF
WHAT THEIR NEIGHBORS WERE
THINKING AND WAYS THEY HAD IN
THE PAST.
>> THERE'S ANOTHER ELEMENT TOO.
IF THE POLL HAD COME OUT WE MAY
HAVE GOTTEN A BETTER IDEA TO
WHAT EXTENT PEOPLE MADE A
DECISION OR NOT. ALL OF THE
OTHER EARLIER POLLS SHOWED 60%
UNDECIDED AND 40% UNDECIDED. I
THINK THAT POLL WOULD HAVE BEEN
KIND OF VERY INFORMATIVE TO SOME
PEOPLE WHO ARE ON THE FENCE, ON
WHICH CANDIDATE PARTICULARLY IF
YOU TIED IN WITH ELECTABILITY
DIMENSION. THAT MIGHT HAVE
BEEN PIVOTAL.
>> EVEN HAVE YOU BEEN HERE IN
IOWA WATCHING ALL OF THIS
UNFOLD. A LOT OF THE NATION'S
ATTENTION HAS BEEN TURNED TO
WASHINGTON AND CONGRESS. TODAY,
SENATOR HAD CLOSING ARGUMENTS
AND IMPEACHMENT TRIAL OF
PRESIDENT DONALD TRUMP. THIS WAS
A MOMENT THAT EVERYTHING THAT
FINALLY LAID ON
THE TABLE. OUR COLLEAGUE RHONDA
COLEMAN HAS BEEN ON CAPITOL HILL
THROUGHOUT THE ENTIRE PROCESS.
RHONDA, BRING US UP TO SPEED ON
WHAT HAPPENED TODAY.
>> Reporter: THAT'S RIGHTLY BE,
GOOD EVENING FROM CAPITOL HILL.
TODAY, BOTH THE HOUSE MANAGERS
AND ALSO THE WHITE HOUSE COUNSEL
GAVE THEIR CLOSING ODDMENTS IN
THIS IMPEACHMENT TRIAL. WHAT WE
HEARD FROM DEMOCRATS IS THERE
IMPASSIONED PLEA TO REMOVE
THE PRESIDENT AND WHAT WE HEARD
FROM THE WHITE HOUSE COUNSEL IS
THAT IMPEACHMENT BEGAN LONG AGO,
IT WAS PLANNED AND IT NEEDS TO
END NOW. LET'S LISTEN TO WHAT
THEY HAD TO SAY TODAY.
>> UNDERSTAND THE ARGUMENTS
WE'VE BEEN MAKING. AT THE END OF
THE DAY, THE KEY CONCLUSION WE
BELIEVE THE
ONLY CONCLUSION BASED ON THE
EVIDENCE AND BASED ON THE
ARTICLES OF IMPEACHMENT
THEMSELVES IN THE CONSTITUTION
IS THAT YOU MUST VOTE TO ACQUIT
THE PRESIDENT.
>> AT THE END OF THE DAY, THIS
IS AN EFFORT TO OVERTURN THE
RESULTS OF ONE ELECTION AND TO
TRY
TO INTERFERE IN THE COMING
ELECTION THAT BEGINS TODAY IN
IOWA.
>> CAN WE BE CONFIDENT THAT
AMERICANS AND NOT FOREIGN POWERS
WILL GET TO DECIDE IN
THE PRESIDENT WILL SHUN ANY
FURTHER FOREIGN INTERFERENCE IN
OUR DEMOCRATIC AFFAIRS? AND THE
SHORT PLANE, SAD MY
INCONTESTABLE ANSWER IS NO, YOU
CAN'T. YOU CAN'T TRUST THIS
PRESIDENT TO DO THE RIGHT THING
NOT FOR ONE MINUTE, NOT FOR ONE
ELECTION, NOT FOR THE SAKE OF
OUR COUNTRY. YOU JUST CAN'T. HE
WILL NOT CHANGE. AND YOU
KNOW IT.
>> ARGUMENTS LASTED FOR ABOUT
FOUR HOURS AND AFTER THAT THE
SENATE WENT INTO REGULAR
BUSINESS WHERE SENATORS WERE
ABLE TO GIVE THEIR REMARKS ON
THE FLOOR FOR A FEW MINUTES.
>> Reporter: MOST NOTABLY
SENATOR MANSON OF WEST VIRGINIA
A MODERATE DEMOCRAT, HE ASKED
HIS COLLEAGUES TO VOTE FOR
RESOLUTION CONSENT SHARING THE
PRESIDENT THAT IS
NOT AS SERIOUS AS IMPEACHMENT
BUT IT'S SOMETHING HE'S PUT ON
THE TABLE SO WE EXPECT TO HEAR
FROM WHERE SENATORS TOMORROW AND
WE HAVE THE STATE OF THE UNION
AT NIGHTTIME AND THE DAY AFTER
LESS THAN 24 HOURS AFTER THE
PRESIDENT TALKS TO BOTH CHAMBERS
TOMORROW NIGHT, WE WILL SEE THAT
SENATE VOTE ON IMPEACHMENT AT 4
PM WEDNESDAY. LIBBY.
>> SO MANY HISTORIC EVENTS ALL
PILED ON TOP OF EACH OTHER.
THANK YOU SO MUCH. TONIGHT, WE
WILL GET MORE INFORMATION ON
VOTER PREFERENCES IN IOWA THAN
PREVIOUS ELECTIONS BUT MULTIPLE
NUMBERS COULD CAUSE SOME
CONFUSION. LET'S GO BACK TO
WASHINGTON AND OUR ELECTION
INSIGHTS SCENE. JEREMY, HELP US
UNDERSTAND THE INFORMATION WE
WILL GET TONIGHT.
>> Reporter: ABSOLUTELY, IT'S
COMPLICATED I WANT MY. WE ARE
GETTING ALL OF THESE NUMBERS
FROM THE IOWA DEMOCRATIC PARTY
FOR THE
FIRST TIME AND SO IT FEELS LIKE
THIS IS A GOOD OPPORTUNITY TO
WALK THROUGH WHAT IT LOOKS LIKE
AND A CAUCUS LOCATION NOT JUST
FROM THE WIDE SHOT BUT ALSO WHAT
DO WE SEE WITH THE ACTUAL VOTERS
AND WHAT ARE THEY DOING?
LET'S LOOK. YOU CAN SEE THAT
WE'VE GOT A MOCKUP OF THE CAUCUS
LOCATION. YOU CAN SEE THE VOTERS
HAVE MOVED TO THE CORNERS FOR
THE CANDIDATES I'D LIKE TO VOTE
FOR. THERE'S NO SECRET BALLOT
HERE IN IOWA. EVERYBODY HAS TO
MOVE WITH THEIR FEET TO THE SPOT
WHERE THEY WOULD LIKE TO VOTE.
CANDIDATE A IS 40%, CANDIDATE B
30%,
CANDIDATE C 20% IN CANDIDATE D
20%. THIS IS ONE THING THAT
MAKES IOWA SO SPECIAL. CANDIDATE
D  NUMBER IS NOT SUFFICIENT,
THEY ARE BELOW 15% IN MOST
PRECINCTS HAVE A 15% CUT OFF FOR
VIABILITY. THAT MEANS THE NEXT
STEP FOR THESE VOTERS WHO VOTED
FOR CANDIDATE D WILL HAVE TO
MOVE BACK TO THE CENTER OF THE
FLOOR AND MAKE ANOTHER DECISION.
THE DECISION THEY GET TO MAKE
LOOKS LIKE ONE OF THREE THINGS.
THEY CAN EITHER A. DECIDE THEY
WOULD LIKE TO CAUCUS FROM ONE OF
THE THREE REMAINING CANDIDATES.
B. THEY CAN DECIDE TO BECOME
UNCOMMITTED BUT THEY WILL STILL
NEED ENOUGH PEOPLE TO MAKE
THAT HAPPEN. FINALLY, THEY HAVE
THE OPTION TO JUST PACK UP AND
LEAVE WHICH IS WHY THOSE SECOND
ALIGNMENT NUMBERS WILL LOOK
SMALLER THAN THE FIRST ALIGNMENT
NUMBERS THAT WE GOT FROM EARLIER
IN THE NIGHT. THE NEXT STEP FOR
THESE VOTERS IS TO DECIDE WHAT
THEY WILL DO. IN OUR
ILLUSTRATION THEY DECIDED TO
CHOOSE ONE OF THE THREE
REMAINING CANDIDATES. HERE WE
SEE KENNEDY A WITH 43%,
CANDIDATE B WITH 20% IN
CANDIDATE C
WITH 13%. WHEN THESE TALLIES GET
MADE THOSE ARE GOING TO BE
TRANSLATED ALONG WITH A LITTLE
BIT OF COMPLEX MATH ABOUT HOW
MANY PEOPLE IT TURNED OUT
PREVIOUSLY FOR THIS CAUCUS
LOCATION, INTO A STATE DELEGATE
EQUIVALENT IN THE STATE DELEGATE
EQUIVALENTS WILL GET TRANSLATED
INTO DELEGATES. THOSE DELEGATES
WILL ALLOW CANDIDATES TO WIN IN
THE CONVENTION THIS SUMMER. IOWA
ONLY HAS 41 DELEGATES OUT FOR
PLAY TONIGHT AND UNLESS
SOMETHING GOES WILDLY DIFFERENT
THAN WHAT WE EXPECT BASED ON
PULLING WE ARE PROBABLY ONLY
GOING TO SEE THE FRONT ONE OR
GET BETWEEN 15 AND 20 DATA
THAT'S. THERE COULD EASILY BE A
SCENARIO WHERE SEVERAL PEOPLE
GET 10 OR MORE WHICH MEANS IOWA
WILL TAKE ON MORE
OF A INTERESTING DIMENSION
BECAUSE IT WON'T REALLY BE THE
MATH THAT PROPELS YOU BUT THE
FRONT RUNNER STATUS OF HAVING
PICKED UP A BIG WIN. YOU WILL
NEED 1900 DELEGATES TO WIN THIS
SUMMER. FOR A LITTLE MORE
INSIGHT INTO WHAT THAT MEANS I'M
BRING IT BACK TO DAVID BYLER.
YOU'VE BEEN WORKING ON A
SIMULATOR THAT GIVES PEOPLE A
LITTLE INSIGHT INTO HOW THIS
MIGHT PLAY OUT HOST IOWA.
>>
THANKS, JEREMY. WE BUILD A
SIMULATOR THAT ALLOWS OUR USERS
TO SORT OF EXPLORE THE DIFFERENT
POSSIBLE SPREADS AND RANGES OF
OUTCOMES FOR DIFFERENT
CANDIDATES UNDER DIFFERENT
CONDITIONS. I WILL HAVE YOU LOOK
INSIDE NOW. TO BUILD THE MODEL
HOW THE CAUCUS IS MICHAEL WE
SELECTED HISTORICAL DATA ON
FACTORS INCLUDING POOLS AND
FUNDRAISERS AND ANALYZED THOSE
NUMBERS TO SEE WHAT THEY TOLD US
ABOUT WHAT'S ACTUALLY POSSIBLE
IN AN ELECTION THAT STILL
UNDERWAY. BECAUSE ELECTIONS ARE
VOLATILE AND THE RUN-UP TO IOWA
LET READERS PLAY AROUND WITH
FOUL POLES AND MONEY MIGHT
FLUCTUATE. SIMULATING THE
CAUCASUS 10,000 TIMES TO SEE
WHAT OUTCOMES ARE MOST LIKELY
FOR EACH CANDIDATE. THE SHORT
VERSION IS NOW THAT ELECTION DAY
IS HERE THE MATH SUGGEST ANY OF
THE LEADING CANDIDATES COULD
PULL OFF A WIN. IF YOU WANT TO
SEE THE RANGE OF OUTCOMES
CHECK OUT THE POST OPINIONS HOME
PAGE WHERE YOU CAN EXPLORE THE
POSSIBILITIES FOR IOWA AND LOOK
AHEAD TO NEW HAMPSHIRE.
>> THAT'S GOOD TIMES. I KEEP IT
BOOKMARKED AND I HAVE IT UP ALL
THE TIME. I GUESS WE WILL GET
MORE INSIGHT IN IOWA, LIBBY.
>> OH GOSH. SINCE THERE ARE
THREE DIFFERENT VOTE TIMES
TONIGHT. HOW IS THE WAPELLO
GOING TO DECLARE A WINNER? BUT
THIS WAS THE
SUBJECT OF INTENSE DEBATE I CAN
TELL YOU THERE WAS AT LEAST ONE
OPTION THAT WE THROUGHOUT RIGHT
OUT OF THE GATE AND THAT WAS THE
FIRST ALIGNMENT NUMBERS THOSE
ARE A LOT OF FUN AND THEY SHOW
IN EARLY
PREFERENCE FOR CANDIDATES. IT
DOESN'T DO ANYTHING TO
TRANSLATING DELEGATE SO THAT IS
OUT. BETWEEN THE SECOND
ALIGNMENT NUMBER OR FINAL
ALIGNMENT IN THE
STATE DELEGATE
EQUIVALENTS WAS WHERE THE
MAJORITY OF OUR TIME WAS SPENT.
WE DECIDED ON THE WEB WE WILL
SHOW YOU THE FINAL ALIGNMENT
NUMBERS. WE LIKE THEM BECAUSE
THEY SHOW ONE-TO-ONE SINGLE
VOTER AND SINGLE VOTE BUT WE
WILL HANDLE OUR RACE CALLS ON
THE STATE DELEGATE EQUIVALENTS
BECAUSE THEY TRANSFER INTO
DELEGATES AND DELEGATES NOT
VOTES IS WHAT WINS THE
CONVENTION THIS SUMMER.
>> JEREMY THANK YOU
SO MUCH. WE ARE GOING TO EXPLAIN
ALL OF WHAT THIS MEANS AND GO
THROUGH ALL THE NUMBERS AND
THANKFULLY WE HAVE JEREMY AND
HIS TEAM MAKING IT SENSE. HOW
ARE THE CANDIDATES AND THEIR
TEAMS LOOKING AT THESE NUMBERS?
WHAT WILL IT TAKE FOR THEM TO
SAY WE NAILED IT AND WE WON
THIS STATE OR WE HIT THE BAR?
HOW DO YOU TAKE THE MESSAGE OF
SUCCESS OUT OF IOWA?
>> IOWA, WE TALKED ABOUT
DIVERSITY EARLIER IN THE STATE
BUT SOMETHING ELSE I LEARNED
THIS PAST WEEK IS JUST HOW
DIVERSE IT IS IN TERMS OF
COMMUNITIES. THEY ARE URBAN
AREAS AND SUBURBAN AREAS AND
RURAL AREAS. THERE ARE LEVELS TO
THEM AND WHATNOT. I THINK WE
WILL SEE SOME CANDIDATES PAYING
ATTENTION TO HOW THEY PERFORMED
IN THE DIFFERENT AREAS AND
WONDERING IF THEY CAN CONNECT
MORE WITH RURAL OR MORE YOU KNOW
AGRICULTURAL FOCUS MORE AND
EDUCATED AND I MORE DIVERSE OR
YOUNGER, OLDER, MORE RELIGIOUS.
ALL OF
THESE DEMOGRAPHICS THAT EXIST IN
THIS DAY AND TAKE SOME SIGNALS
TO SEE HOW SHOULD THAT SAY HOW I
CAMPAIGN IN NEVADA AND SOUTH
CAROLINA AND OTHER SPACES. THERE
ARE CANDIDATES WHO PROBABLY ARE
EXPECTING TO UNDERPERFORM IN
SOME AREAS. IF THEY DO BETTER IN
THAT SPACE THEY MAY SAY YOU KNOW
WHAT MAYBE WE CAN ACTUALLY
TARGET THIS AREA AND BE MORE
AGGRESSIVE IN OUR CAMPAIGNING
MOVING FORWARD. ONE OF THE
THINGS PEOPLE HAVE NOTICED
ABOUT THE BUTTIGIEG CAMPAIGN A
CRITIQUE OR PRAISE DEPENDING
WHERE YOU STAND IS HOW DIFFERENT
SOME OF HIS MESSAGES RIGHT NOW
COMPARED TO WHEN HE FIRST CAME
OUT . IT'S MORE MODERATE AND
FOCUSED ON WINNING SOME FORMER
TRUMP VOTERS. THEY WILL LOOK AND
SEE HOW WELL THESE MESSAGES WENT
WITH
DIFFERENT VOTERS.
>>
IT'S A QUESTION OF ROAD TESTING
YOUR MESSAGE TO PARTS OF IOWA. I
LOVE TO HEAR THAT AND THE SHEAR
LIKE I WON THIS DATE MIKE WHO
DECLARES VICTORY.
>> THAT'S WHAT MENTORS.
>> HOW DO THEY GET THE MOMENTUM
OUT AND SHOW THESE NERVOUS
MOTORS I CAN BE PRESIDENTIAL.
>> EVERYONE WILL DECLARE VICTORY
EVEN SOMEONE WHO UNDERPERFORMS
AND TONIGHT THEY WILL SPEAK TO
THE SUPPORTERS AND SAY THIS IS
FANTASTIC. WE DID AMAZING ON
THIS METRIC. NO ONE WOULD HAVE
THOUGHT THAT. RIVAL CAMPAIGNS,
MOST CAMPAIGNS BELIEVE BERNIE
SANDERS CONS AND WITH AN EDGE ON
THE FIRST METRIC THAT HE WILL BE
ABLE TO GET MORE PEOPLE TO VOTE
FOR HIM ON THE FIRST BALLOT.
WHAT THE OTHER CAMPAIGNS HAVE
BEEN WARNING REPORTERS ABOUT AND
WORRYING ABOUT IS THAT THE
SANDERS CAMPAIGN WILL COME OUT
ONCE WE GET THE FIRST NUMBER AND
THAT BERNIE SANDERS WILL DECLARE
VICTORY
AND SAY, I GOT THE MOST PEOPLE
BUT HE WON'T GET THE MOST
DELEGATES OR THE MOST STATE
DELEGATE EQUIVALENTS BUT HE WILL
USE THAT. SOME OF THIS IS
MANAGING EXPECTATIONS. YOU COULD
CONCEIVE HIM SAYING MORE PEOPLE
SHOWED UP
TO VOTE OR CAUCUS FOR ME THAN
ANYONE ELSE, HOW IS THAT NOT A
VICTORY AND THEN YOU CONCEIVE A
SCENARIO WHERE SOMEONE ELSE KIND
OF WANTS THE SORTING HAPPENS AND
PEOPLE GO TO THEIR SECOND CHOICE
THEY OVERTAKE SOMEONE LIKE
SANDERS. THIS IS HYPOTHETICAL.
TO THAT, IT'S THE
JUMP BALL. THEY ARE ALL GOING TO
NEW HAMPSHIRE TO TRY TO CLAIM
MOMENTUM. ANOTHER POINT TO MAKE
BECAUSE WE SHOWED THE GREAT
PRESENTATION ABOUT DELEGATES.
WAITING IN THE WINGS HERE IS
WORTH MENTIONING IS MIKE
BLOOMBERG. THERE ARE 40 SOME
DELEGATES TONIGHT AND IT'S
POSSIBLE AS JEREMY SAID, THREE
DIFFERENT PEOPLE COULD GET
10 DELEGATES. MICHAEL BLOOMBERG
IS SKIPPING THE FIRST FOUR STATE
SPENDING MILLIONS OF DOLLARS  ON
THOSE SUPER TUESDAY STATES AS
YOU EXPLAINED HOW IMPORTANT THEY
ARE AND WHAT MICHAEL BLOOMBERG
ONCE  IS IT FOR ME TO BE A
VERY SCATTERSHOT DECISION WHERE
EVERYONE CAN CREDIBLY CLAIM
VICTORY, KNOW WHEN EMERGES
STRONG. BLOOMBERG WOULD WANT JOE
BIDEN TO UNDERPERFORM IN LOOK
VERY WEAK  SO HE CAN BE OF
ESTABLISH CANDIDATE. TO STOP
BERNIE SANDERS AND ELIZABETH
WARREN, HE IS SOMEONE YOU CANNOT
WRITE OFF. MICHAEL BENNET  ALSO
NOT HERE COMPETING NEW
HAMPSHIRE, HE IS A MODERATE
SENATOR HOPING BIDEN AND IN SOME
WAYS BUTTIGIEG UNDERPERFORM  SO
HE CAN GET A LITTLE LIFT OFF
DURING THE WEEK BETWEEN IOWA AND
NEW HAMPSHIRE. THERE'S AN
EXPECTATION BUT WE WILL, EVEN
THOUGH EVERYONE WILL CLAIM
VICTORY IN ALL LIKELIHOOD ONE OR
TWO PEOPLE'S CAMPAIGNS WILL
FUNCTIONALLY END TONIGHT. THEY
WON'T DROP OUT TONIGHT OR
WHATEVER, BUT THEIR MONEY WILL
DRY UP. THEY WON'T GET PEOPLE.
NEW HAMPSHIRE VOTERS ARE
STRATEGIC. THEY ARE WATCHING
WHAT'S HAPPENING. THE SAYING IN
NEW HAMPSHIRE IS IOWA PICKS CORN
NEW HAMPSHIRE PICKS PRESIDENT'S.
>> THEY LIKE THE
HEALTHY COMPETITION.
>> THEY ARE WATCHING AND SO ALL
OF THOSE THINGS ARE HOVERING
OVER AND ULTIMATELY THE MOMENTUM
AND THE PERCEPTION IS WHAT
MATTERS MORE THAN THE DELEGATES,
BECAUSE YOU NEED 1800 DELEGATES
IN THERE ARE 40 UP FOR GRABS
TODAY. IT DOES SET THE TONE.
>> WE WILL
TALK MORE. PROFESSOR HOLD ON I
WANT TO SPEAK MORE WITH ALL OF
YOU ABOUT WHO HAS TO DO WELL AND
WHO IS SUPER VULNERABLE. I WANT
TO REMIND EVERYONE WE HAVE
REPORTERS ACROSS THE STATE AT
CAUCUS SITES. LET'S CHECK BEGIN
WITH JOYCE KOH IN COUNCIL BLUFFS
AND SOUTHWEST IOWA. PRESIDENT
DONALD TRUMP WON IN 2016 BUT
IT'S AN AREA WHERE CLIMATE
CHANGE AND TRADE WARS HAVE HAD A
MAJOR IMPACT OVER THE LAST FEW
YEARS. JOYCE, AS YOU TALK TO
VOTERS ARE THEY CHANGING THEIR
MIND ABOUT THE
PRESIDENT?
>> Reporter:
LIBBY, I HAVE YET TO TALK TO A
DEMOCRATIC OFFICER WHO IS A
FORMER TRUMP SUPPORTER. WE HAVE
RUN INTO SEVERAL FORMER
REPUBLICANS WHO ARE OUT HERE
CAUCUSING, TONIGHT. MAINLY FOUND
IN THE BUTTIGIEG CAMP.  THAT'S
INTERESTING TO NOTE OUT OF THIS
VERY RED AREA OF IOWA LIKE YOU
SAID IT IS WORTH MENTIONING THAT
PRESIDENT DONALD TRUMP WON IN
IOWA HANDEDLY LARGELY BECAUSE OF
AREAS LIKE COUNCIL BLUFFS. BACK
IN 2016 HE WON THE REPUBLICAN
PRIMARY HERE
AS WELL. SPEAKING OF PRESIDENT
DONALD TRUMP, HE WAS IN IOWA
JUST DAYS BEFORE THE CAUCUS. HE
HELD A RALLY IN DES MOINES WHERE
HE TALKED ABOUT THE CAUCUSES.
HERE IS WHAT HE HAD TO SAY ABOUT
THE DEMOCRATIC CANDIDATES.
>> LET'S VOTE FOR POCAHONTAS.
LET'S VOTE FOR BERNIE. LET'S
VOTE FOR SLEEPY JOE.
JOE, OH. HOW ABOUT BUTTIGIEG .
BUTTIGIEG , THEY CALL HIM MAYOR
PETE DO YOU KNOW WHY? NOBODY CAN
PRONOUNCE HIS NAME. NOBODY HAS
ANY IDEAS. BUTTIGIEG. WE ARE
GOING TO IN THE GREAT STATE OF
IOWA . AND IT IS GOING TO BE A
HISTORIC LANDSLIDE.
>> Reporter: WE HEAR A LOT OF
THAT NAME-CALLING. THAT RESPONSE
FROM THE CROWD WHEN HE IS SO
CONFIDENTLY SAYING HE WILL IN IN
NOVEMBER AND THAT IS OBVIOUSLY
THE CONSENSUS AMONG A LOT OF THE
TRUMP SUPPORTERS WE SPOKE TO AT
THAT RALLY. WE ASKED THEM IF
THERE ARE ANY DEMOCRATIC
CANDIDATES THAT THEY THINK
POSING A THREAT TO TRUMP. THEY
SORT OF LAUGHED THAT QUESTION
AND SAY NO, THEY THINK THE
INCUMBENT HAS IT. ONE OF THE
THING TO MENTION, SPECIFICALLY
HERE IN COUNCIL BLUFFS, WE WERE
WALKING DOWNTOWN THE OTHER DAY
AND TRYING TO TALK TO SOME
DEMOCRATIC CAUCUS THERE'S. WE
RAN INTO MORE TRUMP SUPPORTERS
WHO WEREN'T CAUCUSING AND
DEMOCRATIC VOTERS WHO WERE. THAT
TELLS YOU HOW READ THIS AREA IS
AND IT WILL BE INTERESTING TO
SEE IF A MORE MODERATE CANDIDATE
WINDS OUT OF THIS MORE RED AREA
OF
IOWA. LIBBY
>> THANK YOU. THERE ARE KEY
CHANGES IN THE CAUCUS RULES THIS
YEAR. FOR MORE ON THAT LET'S GO
BACK TO HANNA JEWELL WHO'S JUST
SOUTH FROM US AT DRAKE
UNIVERSITY
.
>> Reporter: TEENS ARE REALLY
STARTING TO MOVE PEOPLE ARE
MOVING OUT OF THE BLEACHERS AND
STARTING TO CAUCUS FOR
CANDIDATES. WE SEE A LOT OF
SUPPORT FOR SANDERS AND PETE
BUTTIGIEG AND WARREN .  WE ARE
STANDING NEXT TO THE BENNET
CROWD.  KNOWN FOR HIM YET AND
WHO KNOWS. NOBODY FOR BLOOMBERG
SO FAR NOT EVERYONE IS IN PLACE
AND NO ONE FIRST IR. I'VE HEARD
A LOT ABOUT NEW HAMPSHIRE SO
USED TO GETTING THAT
FACE-TO-FACE CONDUCT BUT SOME
WERE OFFENDED BY CAMPAIGNS WHO
FOCUS ON ADVERTISING BECAUSE THE
CAUCUS DEPENDS SO MUCH ON HAVING
PRECINCT CAPTAINS WITH HUNDREDS
AND THOUSANDS OF PEOPLE WHO ARE
WILLING TO DO A LOT OF WORK FOR
YOUR CAMPAIGN. THERE ARE CHANGES
WE MENTIONED THERE WILL BE MORE
DATA AVAILABLE THAT CAN LEAD TO
MULTIPLE CAMPAIGNS CLIMBING ONE
VICTORY ANOTHER. ANOTHER CHANGE
THIS YEAR IS THE RESULT OF 2016
THERE WERE CLOSED
CAUCUSES BETWEEN CLINTON AND
SANDERS AND THERE WAS NOTE WAY
TO CHECK. SANDERS SUPPORTERS
CRITIQUED
IT SO PEOPLE GET PAPER WHEN THEY
COME IN AND MARKED THEIR FIRST
CHOICE AND HANDED OVER AFTER THE
FIRST COUNT. THEY THEN REALIGNED
AND MARKED THEIR SECOND CHOICE
IN HAND THAT OVER, IF SOMEONE
GETS MAD AT SOMEONE ELSE WE CAN
GO AND SEE THAT PAPER TRAIL.
ANOTHER CHANGES
THERE ARE SATELLITE CAUCUSES FOR
PEOPLE WHO CANNOT MAKE IT IN A
NIGHT OR AT THE PLACE.  THERE IS
ONE IN PARIS AND THERE'S ONE
HERE EARLIER TODAY WITH
DELEGATES GOING TO SANDERS AND
WARREN. A BIGGER CROWD TONIGHT.
A LOT OF SUPPORT FOR PETE
BUTTIGIEG AND  ELIZABETH WARREN.
I SPOKE TO A SAD CLUB SURE
SUPPORTER AND SAID HE COMES FROM
A MIDDLE
BACK ROUND. HE SAID WITH THE
STUDENTS IT'S MORE WEALTHY AND
PEOPLE ARE NOT OR HE SAID HE DID
NOT RELATE TO THEM ON A CLASS
BASIS AND HE SEES THAT AS A
SOURCE OF SUPPORT FOR BUTTIGIEG
AND WARREN  AND THERE ARE ONLY A
FEW, BIDEN AND KLOBUCHAR DON'T
LOOK LIKE THEY ARE NECESSARILY
GOING TO BE VIABLE. WE DID SEE
THEM JOINING EARLIER. WE WILL
SEE WHAT HAPPENS AFTER THE
RE-ALIGNMENTS.
>> THANK YOU. JOYCE KOH WAS
TALKING ABOUT PRESIDENT DONALD
TRUMP AND AT DRAKE UNIVERSITY IS
WHERE PRESIDENT DONALD TRUMP
JUST AT A RALLY. YOU WERE THERE
EUGENE . DID YOU GET THE SENSE
OF HOW THE PEOPLE WHO WERE THERE
AS TRUMP SUPPORTERS WERE
THINKING ABOUT THE DEMOCRATIC
CAUCUS IN THE PROCESS? DID THEY
SEE IT AS A THREAT? JOYCE SEEM
TO THINK PEOPLE WERE NOT
CONCERNED.
>> THEY DID NOT IN THE LOT OF
THAT HAS TO DO WITH, I SAY THIS
RESPECTFULLY, WE HAVE ENOUGH
RESEARCH TO SHOW CONSERVATIVES
CONSUME MEDIA AND
HAVE A LEVEL OF CONFIDENCE IN
TRUMP BASED OFF OF THAT. SOME
THINGS THAT HAVE BROUGHT PEOPLE
THE AWARENESS OR THE IDEA THAT
TRUMP PERHAPS IS NOT AS STRONG
AS SOME OF HIS SUPPORTERS THINK
HE IS OUR NOT BEING REPORTED ON
FOX NEWS IN THE TRUMP FRIENDLY
OUTLETS. THEY'RE CONFIDENT THAT
TRUMP WILL PREVAIL
IN NOVEMBER. THE THING THAT'S
FASCINATING ABOUT THAT IS I
SPENT OUT TIME AND THERE WERE
LITERALLY HUNDREDS OF
PROTESTERS. GRANTED THIS WAS THE
UNIVERSITY AND MILLENNIALS IN
YOUNGER PEOPLE. IT'S NOT THE
MOST PRO-TRUMP ENVIRONMENT.
THERE WERE MOMENTS WHERE WONDER
IF SOME OF THOSE VOTERS WHO
SAY TRUMP
REALIZES THERE ARE VOTERS IN
THEIR OWN COMMUNITY WHO ARE NOT
SO SUPPORTIVE OF TRUMP THAT THEY
WOULD STAND OUTSIDE AND 25
DEGREE WEATHER ON THURSDAY TO
COMMUNICATE THAT THEY BELIEVE HE
SHOULD BE REMOVED FROM OFFICE.
>> PROFESSOR McCORMICK HOW DOES
THE SPECTER OF THE 2016 ELECTION
PRESIDENT DONALD TRUMP AFFECT
CAUCUS
GOERS?
>> IT'S A MAJOR FORCE IT'S THE
THING THAT IS PROPELLING THEM
NOT ONLY IN TERMS OF
PARTICIPATION BUT IN TERMS OF
WHAT WE TALKED ABOUT EARLIER
ELECTABILITY. THE SORT OF
VISCERAL DISLIKE, IT'S THAT THE
EUPHEMISM OF PRESIDENT DONALD
TRUMP I THINK IT DRIVES A LOT OF
DEMOCRATIC ACTIVISTS. ALSO,
DEMOCRATIC SUPPORTERS. I THINK
IT ALSO GETS TO WHAT WAS
SUGGESTED EARLIER IN TERMS OF
THE SUBURBS. THAT HAS MOVED AWAY
FROM THE REPUBLICAN PARTY AND WE
SAW THAT IN 2018.
>> IN THE MIDTERMS.
>> YES AND THAT WILL BE THE BIG
TURNING POINT. I THINK IT'S KIND
OF INTERESTING THAT IN SOME
REPORTS CAN COMMENT
BUT BIDEN WENT OUT TO SOME OF
WESTERN IOWA IN THE REPUBLICAN
AREAS TO SEE IN THOSE RURAL
AREAS IF HE COULD GET SUFFICIENT
NUMBER OF PEOPLE TO CAUCUS. YOU
PROBABLY COULD NOT DO DRAKE
UNIVERSITY AND THAT  WHOLE
ENVIRONMENT. IT WON'T BE AN AREA
WHERE AS THE REPORTER SUGGESTED
WHERE BIDEN IS GOING TO DO VERY
WELL.
>> SO WESTERN IOWA IS THE MORE
CONSERVATIVE PART OF
THE STATE.  IT'S CLOSER TO
NEBRASKA. EASTERN IOWA IS THE
MORE DEMOCRATIC PART OF THE
STATE . IT'S ALONG THE
MISSISSIPPI RIVER BASIN. IT'S
MORE BLUE-COLLAR AND IT'S MUCH
MORE CATHOLIC. ACTUALLY, IT'S
CLOSER TO ILLINOIS. THOSE ARE
ANCESTRAL DEMOCRATS. ABOUT ONE
THIRD OF IOWA'S  COUNTIES VOTED
FOR BARACK OBAMA IN 2008 AND
2012 AND THEN VOTED TRUMP IN
2016. PART OF THE ELECTABILITY
PITCH MORE THAN IN ANY OTHER
STATE, MOORE COUNTY SLIPPED.
>> THERE ARE 99 COUNTIES
IN IOWA.
>> ONE OF THE WAYS THE
CANDIDATES HAVE MADE THE
ELECTABILITY WE'VE BEEN TALKING
ABOUT IS TO GO TO THOSE
COLONIES.
YOU SAW PETE BUTTIGIEG DID A
RALLY YESTERDAY MORNING IN ONE
OF THOSE COUNTIES AND SAID I CAN
WIN HERE . AND BERNIE SANDERS
COULD NOT. YOU'VE SEEN JOE BIDEN
GO FOR WESTERN IOWA.  SOME OF MY
AMY KLOBUCHAR WILL NOT DO WELL
ON A  DRAKE UNIVERSITY CAMPUS
BUT SHE NEEDS TO DO WELL  AT THE
COUNCIL BLUFFS POLLING SITE THAT
WE HAVE SOMEONE AT. IF SHE ISN'T
DOING WELL THERE IS NOT GOING TO
BE A GOOD THING.
>> LET'S GO BACK TO JEREMY
BAUDER'S IN
THE STUDIO WITH THE TEAM TO
BREAK DOWN THE GEOGRAPHY OF THE
STATE AND HOW THAT COULD INDEED
INFLUENCE TONIGHT.
>> Reporter: THANK YOU LIBBY.
THIS IS THE MAP YOU'VE SEEN ALL
NIGHT. IT'S IOWA'S 99 COUNTIES
IN 1680 SOMETHING PRECINCTS.
IT'S A LITTLE BIT COMPLICATED.
ONE OF THE THINGS ABOUT IT THAT
WE FIND SO INTERESTING IS THAT
THERE ARE LARGE AREAS OF URBAN
VOTERS AND THERE ARE VAST SLOTS
OF RURAL AREAS. TO GET A BETTER
HANDLE ON WHAT IOWA IS REALLY
LIKE WE WANT TO TALK YOU THROUGH
THE POLITICAL GEOGRAPHY OF THE
STATE. SOME OF WHAT THIS MEANS
IS FINDING THOSE AREAS WHERE WE
HAVE LARGE GROUPS OF LIKE
VOTERS. THOSE FOUR AREAS WE WILL
TALK ABOUT TONIGHT ARE THE BIG
CITY OF DES MOINES. THE LIBERAL
ARCHIPELAGO THAT VOTED LARGELY
SANDERS IN 2016. WE HAVE THE
MISSISSIPPI RIVER CORRIDOR IN
THE FAR EAST AND OUT WEST WHICH
IS RURAL. LET'S GET STARTED AND
LOOK AT THAT CITY OF DES MOINES.
THE DEAL ABOUT DES MOINES IS
IT'S ABOUT A THIRD OF THE VOTERS
THAT WILL VOTE IN THE CAUCUS
TONIGHT. IT'S A BIG TARGET AND
INVITING IF YOUR POLITICIAN IS
LOOKING TO TRY TO WINDOW IN THE
CONVENTION BUT YOU WANT TO BE
CAREFUL. MARCO RUBIO SPEND A TON
OF
TIME HERE IN WON THE CITY AND
MANY OF THE OUTLYING COUNTIES
BUT FAILED TO WHEN THE STATE.
THAT SOMETHING THAT CAN HAPPEN
TO A DEMOCRATIC CANDIDATE IF
THEY AREN'T CAREFUL. NEXT, WE
WILL LOOK AT THE LIVE LIBERAL
ARCHIPELAGO IT'S UNIVERSITY
TOWNS LIKE HERE IN
IOWA CITY WHERE WE HAVE THE
UNIVERSITY OF IOWA. THESE ARE
YOUNGER FOLKS. THERE ARE 10,000
COLLEGE STUDENTS AND IT'S A MIX
OF URBAN AND SUBURBAN VOTERS,
WHO WILL SUPPORT SANDERS IN
2016. THE DEAL IS SANDERS DOES
NOT HAVE THE SAME SUPPORT THIS
YEAR THAT HE WOULD EXPECT
BECAUSE THERE ARE SO MANY OTHER
CANDIDATES IN HIS LANE. HE'S GOT
FOLKS LIKE ANDREW YANG,
ELIZABETH WARREN HEAR PEOPLE
NIPPING AT HIS HEELS AND EVEN
THOSE PETE BUTTIGIEG PULLING
HIM. WE WILL LOOK AT THE
MISSISSIPPI RIVER  CORRIDOR THIS
IS TRADITIONAL FAIRLY
DEMOCRATIC, IT'S BLUE COLLAR
VOTERS AND IT'S
FOLKS WHO VOTED FOR TRUMP IN
2016 AFTER VOTING FOR OBAMA IN
2012. THIS AREA WAS A CRAZY
FLIP. THAT'S A BIG DEAL FOR US.
FINALLY WE WILL LOOK AT THAT
ROLE LAST. THERE'S NOT A LOT OF
DEMOCRATS OUT HERE IT'S A LOT OF
REPUBLICANS BUT IT'S A GREAT
PLACE TO SHAKE HANDS WITH PEOPLE
WHO'VE BEEN AFFECT DID BY THE
PRESIDENT STRAIGHT POLICIES.
WITH THAT WE WILL KICK IT BACK
TO YOU IN IOWA, LIBBY.
>> THANK YOU. PROFESSOR
McCORMICK YOU'VE COVERED THE
IOWA CAUCUSES FOR DEER I SAY,
DECADES.
>> ABSOLUTELY FOR DECADES.
>> WHAT HE WATCHING FOR TONIGHT?
BUT WHAT I REALLY WATCHING FOR
IS THE MULTIPLICITY OF
CANDIDATES THAT WILL CLAIM
SUCCESS OUT OF THIS. THIS IS
VERY UNUSUAL. ARE USUALLY SAY
OUT OF IOWA THERE ARE THREE
TICKETS.
>> IN THE SENSE LIKE YOU GET
ONTO THE NEXT?
>> THAT'S RIGHT. THREE TICKETS
AND IF YOU DO WELL YOU CAN
PROCEED. THE ONLY EXCEPTION TO
THAT WAS JOHN McCAIN WHEN HE
CAME IN 4th INNING MENTALLY WON
THE NOMINATION. IN FACT, THESE
NUMBER OF VOTES WE WILL HAVE
SOME OF THESE TWO REPORTING
THESE VOTES ARE GOING TO REALLY
ALLOW CANDIDATES TO MAKE CLAIMS
THAT WE ARE NOT SEEING IN
PREVIOUS YEARS. THAT WILL MARK A
DIFFERENCE FOR THE CAUCUSES AND
WHETHER THAT WILL BE SOMETHING
THAT THEY WILL CONTINUE. THE
OTHER MESSAGE THAT I THINK WE
WANT TO FOCUS IN ON IS TO WHAT
EXTENT WILL THE MEDIA DECLARE A
WINNER OUT OF THIS? THEY ALWAYS
HAVE IN THE PAST SAID THAT SOME
CANDIDATES EXCEEDED EXPECTATIONS
THAT HE OR SHE DID MUCH BETTER
THAN THEY EXPECTED TO DO AND
THAT THEY EXHIBITED PARTICULAR
STRENGTHS AS WE WERE TALKING
ABOUT WITH EUGENE IN TERMS OF
PARTICULAR GROUPS OR
CONSTITUENCIES I THINK THAT IS
THE OTHER KIND OF INTERESTING
THING I WANT TO LOOK AT.
>> THERE IS A QUESTION OF HOW
THE NATIONAL MEDIA FOCUS AFFECT
THINGS AND HOW MUCH
THAT IMPACTS IOWA. SO MUCH GREAT
LOCAL JOURNALISM TEACHES US SO
MUCH BUT THOUSANDS OF
JOURNALISTS AROUND THE WORLD .
>> LET ME TELL YOU HOW MUCH WE
LOVE THE NATIONAL MEDIA.
>> YOU ARE VERY GRACIOUS HOST.
>> THEY SORT OF TAKE OVER
THE STATE AT LEAST FOR A MONTH,
IT SEEMS TO ME BEFORE THE
CAUCUSES AND OBVIOUSLY BEFORE
THAT AS WELL. I THINK THE
NATIONAL MEDIA CAN REALLY
MAGNIFY THE RESULTS HERE. I
MEAN, SOME OR CERTAINLY THE
PUBLIC WILL LOVE THAT THEY ARE
TREATED TO THIS KIND OF NATIONAL
ATTENTION. WE ARE USUALLY
CONSIDERED THIS SMALL, ISOLATED
STATE. IT'S A FLYOVER STATE AND
FOR A BRIEF SHINING MOMENT, WE
ARE NOT THE FLYOVER STATE. WE
ARE THE CENTER OF THE UNIVERSE.
>> HOW MUCH IS NOT HAVING THE
DES MOINES REGISTER POLL COME
OUT THIS WEEKEND CHANGING
PEOPLE'S CALCULATIONS ON THE
NARRATIVE?
>> I THINK THAT WAS A MAJOR KIND
OF DIFFICULTY, REALLY. BECAUSE
THE REGISTER POLL HAS BEEN LOOK
AT AS SUCH A MODEL OF IMPORTANCE
IN TERMS OF PREDICT DURING AND
IN THE PAST REGISTERS POLLS AT
LEAST AT THE PRESIDENTIAL LEVEL
HAVE BEEN ALMOST EXACTLY ON THE
MARK. SO IT HAS A LOT OF
CREDIBILITY. THE FACT THAT IT
DID NOT COME OUT, THAT THERE WAS
A HICCUP IN TERMS OF APPARENTLY
IN THE SURVEY, IN TERMS OF
RESPONDENTS. I THINK THAT THAT
IS NOT SOMETHING THAT IOWANS
WILL TALK ABOUT CONSTANTLY AS A
SOURCE
OF PRIDE.
>> AND IT WAS INDEED A CONCERN
ABOUT HOW THE QUESTION WAS
PRESENTED.
>> AND APPARENTLY WHAT HAPPENED
ACCORDING TO THE POLLSTER WHO IS
AMAZING. THE PERSON WHO WAS IN
THE CALL CENTER CALLING TO DO
THE POLL. TO MAKE IT EASIER TO
SEE THE NAMES THEY EXPANDED THE
FONT. IN THAT PUSHED PETE
BUTTIGIEG'S NAME  AT LEAST IN
ONE SURVEY OFF THE LIST OF NAMES
READ. SO WHAT HAPPENED WAS A
BUTTIGIEG SUPPORTER GOT  A CALL
FROM THE POLLSTER AND THEY DID
NOT OFFER BUTTIGIEG AS AN OPTION
. THEY CALLED THE CAMPAIGN AND
THE CAMPAIGN CALLED THE POLLSTER
AND THEN THE POLLSTER REALIZED
THAT AND CANCELED THE ENTIRE
POLL.
>> THAT'S WHAT CHANGED IT.
PROFESSOR McCORMICK THANK YOU .
JAMES HOMAN, SCOTT IN EUGENE.
AND YOU AS WELL. WE WILL WATCH
EVERYTHING UNFOLD AND WE WILL
HAVE RESULTS AS WE GET THEM. I'M
LIBBY CASEY. STAY TUNED.
>>> IT'S 8:00 YOUR IN DES MOINES
AND IF YOU ARE JUST JOINING US
WELCOME TO LIVE COVERAGE OF THE
IOWA CAUCUSES FROM THE " THE
WASHINGTON POST ".  WE ARE AT
THE IOWA EVENTS CENTER WERE
THOUSANDS ARE GATHERED. THIS IS
THE
OFFICIAL START OF THE 2020
PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION CYCLE AND
WE ARE EXCITED TO HAVE YOU WITH
US. WHEREVER YOU ARE WATCHING
SUBSCRIBED FOR THE LATEST FROM "
THE WASHINGTON POST " . I WOULD
LIKE TO WELCOME MY GUEST BUT
FIRST YOU SEE THESE IMAGES FROM
AROUND THE STATE OF IOWA. JAMES
HOMAN THANK YOU FOR BEING HERE.
EUGENE SCOTT AND HELLO IOWA
STATE PROFESSOR OF
POLITICAL SCIENCE. WE LEFT THIS
OFF IN THE LAST HOUR TALKING
ABOUT THE CAUCUSES AND WHAT A
NOVEL AND INTERESTING AN AMAZING
DEMOCRACY IT IS BUT THERE ARE
SOME CRITICISMS. WHILE THIS
BRINGS PEOPLE OUT AND CAUSES
THEM TO GET TOGETHER
WITH THEIR COMMUNITY AND
NEIGHBORS IN STATE WHO THEY
BELIEVE SHOULD BE THE NEXT
PRESIDENT, IT ALSO HAS DRAWBACKS
IN TERMS OF ACCESSIBILITY AND IN
JUST YOU CAN PARTICIPATE TALK TO
ME ABOUT
THAT DICHOTOMY.
>> THERE IS AN IDEA THAT NOT
EVERYONE IS ABLE TO PARTICIPATE
IN THE CAUCUSES WHO WANTS TO.
ONE THING I SAW IN THE LAST
24 HOURS THAT WAS VERY
INTERESTING IS THAT THE WARREN
CAMPAIGN HAS VOLUNTEERS
PROVIDING CHILDCARE. IF YOU ARE
A SINGLE PARENT AND YOU WANT TO
CAUCUS AND YOU DON'T HAVE AN
OPTION FOR CHILDCARE, THAT CAN
MAKE IT VERY DIFFICULT FOR YOU
TO CAUCUS. IT
ALSO SEEMS TO MAKE IT DIFFICULT
FOR PEOPLE WHO ARE JUST WORKING
OR WHO ARE ELDERLY WHO LIVE IN
MORE RURAL PARTS OF THE STATE
WHERE TRANSPORTATION COULD
BE DIFFICULT. ESPECIALLY, IF IN
THE PAST THERE ARE WEATHER
ISSUES WHICH WE HAVE NOT HAD
THIS YEAR BUT IT CAN HAPPEN IN
IOWA SOMETIMES. THERE IS THIS
IDEA THAT PEOPLE WHO PERHAPS MAY
HAVE WANTED TO PARTICIPATE IN
THE PAST HAVE NOT BEEN ABLE TO.
WE SEE HOW CAMPAIGNS HAVE
RESPONDED.
>> PROFESSOR WHERE YOU WATCHING
THE WEATHER BUT IT HAS
IMPLICATIONS. I'M SURE SOME
CAMPAIGNS WERE WATCHING TO MAKE
SURE WAS GOOD WEATHER BECAUSE IT
IS TAX THEM MORE THAN OTHERS.
HOW DO THE CAMPAIGNS HAVE TO
THINK ABOUT THE TURF?
>> IT'S SNOWING. IT'S THE
MIDWEST. YOU GET THE WIND, THE
BITTER WIND AND I THINK IT KEEPS
TURN OUT DOWN. THE RECORD
TURNOUT IS ONLY
239,000 PEOPLE. AND THAT IS NOT
A LOT OF PEOPLE TO BE DECIDING
SUCH A MAJOR PART OF AMERICAN
DEMOCRACY.
>> THAT WAS WITH BARACK
OBAMA.
>> EXACTLY.
>> THERE ARE MORE THAN 3 MILLION
PEOPLE IN THE STATE. YOU SEE HOW
SMALL A PORTION THAT IS.
>> THEIR CAMPAIGNS LIKE THE
BIDEN CAMPAIGN THAT WANT TO MAKE
SURE THE WEATHER IS GOOD.
>> IT'S ONE OF THOSE THINGS IT'S
A FUN PARLOR GAME BECAUSE IT IS
NOT TOTALLY OBVIOUS WHO BENEFITS
FROM BETTER WEATHER AND IT WAS
ACTUALLY UNSEASONABLY WARM OVER
THE WEEKEND. THE SNOWPACK WAS
MELTING. IT WAS KIND OF WHAT
BECAUSE OF THE MELT. IT WAS
BEAUTIFUL. PEOPLE WERE WEARING
SHORTS. TONIGHT, IT'S COLDER BUT
IT'S FINE FOR FEBRUARY. YOU
ARE -- ANDREW YANG IS COUNTING
ON FIRST TIME CAUCUSGOERS.
BERNIE SANDERS IS TRYING TO
SPEND THE ELECTORATE TO GET
PEOPLE WHO'VE NEVER GONE TO A
COMMUNITY MEETING TO SHOW UP.
JOE BIDEN DEFINITELY, HIS
SUPPORTERS ARE THE PEOPLE WHO
HAVE DONE THIS YEAR IN AND YEAR
OUT. THEY ARE LESS IMPASSIONED
AND LESS ENERGY BUT THEY ARE
RELIABLE. THE
BERNIE SANDERS, AND ALL OF HIS
RALLIES HE SAID IF TURNOUT IS
LOW I WILL LOOSE. THE LOWER
TURNOUT IS THE WORST FOR ME AND
IN THIS CONTEXT THAT'S CORRECT.
>> WE WATCH FOR TURN IT. THE
CANDIDATES HAVE MADE STRONG
PERSONAL CLOSING IOWA'S. LET'S
LISTEN TO WHAT THEY'VE HAD
TO SAY.
>> WE ARE TAKING ON WALL STREET.
WE ARE TAKING ON THE INSURANCE
COMPANIES, THE DRUG COMPANIES,
FOSSIL FUEL INDUSTRY, MILITARY,
WE ARE TAKING ON ALL
OF THEM. WE ARE TAKING ON TRUMP
ON THE REPUBLICAN PARTY. WE ARE
TAKING THE DEMOCRATIC
ESTABLISHMENT.
>> I'VE GOTTEN THE ENDORSEMENTS
FROM THE NEW HAMPSHIRE AND UNION
LEADER TO THE QUAD-CITY TIMES
BECAUSE I HAVE BEEN ABLE TO
TACKLE THE ISSUES NOT JUST THE
TALKING POINTS, I'VE HAD THE
EXPERIENCE ON HOW TO GET THINGS
DONE. YOU TELL PEOPLE THAT AND
THAT'S HOW WE WILL IN.
>> THE AMERICAN PEOPLE ARE GOOD,
DECENT, HONORABLE PEOPLE. AND
GIVEN HALF A CHANCE, THEY WOULD
NEVER EVER LET THEIR COUNTRY
DOWN.
THEY DESERVE, THEY DESERVE A
PRESIDENT THAT TELLS THE TRUTH.
NOT LIE, LIE AFTER LIE
AFTER LIE.
>> WE DON'T HAVE TO CHOOSE
BETWEEN LISTENING TO YOUR HEAD
AND YOUR HEART. YOU DON'T HAVE
TO CHOOSE BETWEEN GOVERNING WELL
AND WINNING BIG. WE DON'T HAVE
TO CHOOSE. WE HAVE TO CHOOSE ALL
OF THESE THINGS. WE HAVE TO GET
ALL OF THIS RIGHT AND THIS IS
OUR ONE SHOT, IT'S OUR ONLY
CHANCE.
>> THE DANGER IS REAL. OUR
DEMOCRACY HANGS IN THE BALANCE.
SO WHAT ARE WE GOING TO DO? WE
CAN TOUR, WE CAN BE TIMID, WE
CAN CROUCH OR WE CAN FIGHT BACK.
ME, I'M
FIGHTING BACK.
>> TALK ABOUT THE CLOSING
ARGUMENTS THE CANDIDATES WERE
TRYING TO MAKE, EUGENE. WHAT DID
YOU HEAR THEM PUSHING HOME?
>> ONE THEME THAT I HEARD AND AT
THE WARREN RALLY AND AT
BUTTIGIEG'S  RALLY IS THE
IMPORTANCE OF UNIFYING. WE HAD
ONE HEADLINE IN PARTICULAR
COUPLE OF DAYS AGO ABOUT ONE
CANDIDATE SURROGATE BOOING
HILLARY CLINTON AS A
SURROGATE FOR BERNIE SANDERS.
THERE WAS CONCERN THAT IT
HIGHLIGHTED HOW DIVIDED THE
PARTY REALLY IS.
>> LIKE THE RASHIDA CHILLY? BUT
LATER APOLOGIZED.
>>
SHE DID APOLOGIZE AND WE SAW
CANDIDATES INCLUDING BERNIE
SANDERS OUTSIDE A RALLY OF HIS
SAYING ULTIMATELY HE NEEDED HIS
SUPPORTERS TO BACK THE
DEMOCRATIC CANDIDATE IN THE END
SO THEY COULD DEFEAT TRUMP.
>> WHAT YOU SEE THAT'S DIFFERENT
THIS YEAR PROFESSOR? AS CAUCUS
GOERS MAKE THERE, NATIONS ON WHO
THEY SHOULD SUPPORT. THE SHEER
NUMBER OF CANDIDATES IS UNUSUAL.
WE HAVE NOT HAD 11 AND THEY
WON'T ALL BE VIABLE COMING OUT
OF IOWA BUT WITH
THE NEW RULES YOU CAN ONLY
REALIGN ONCE AT THE CAUCUSES.
THAT'S NEW THIS YEAR. THAT
PROBABLY HURTS THE FRINGE
CANDIDATES. PEOPLE ARE GOING TO
WANT TO ALIGN WITH THE VIABLE
GROUP AND THAT'S IT THEY CAN'T
MOVE AGAIN. WE WOULD LIKE TO SEE
MORE OF A WINNOWING EFFECT IT'S
ALWAYS BEEN A WINNOWING AFFECT
BUT IT'S BIGGER THIS TIME.
>>
HOW SIGNIFICANT? TALK MORE ABOUT
THAT WITH US, HOW MAKE IT OR
BREAK IN IOWA FEELS BECAUSE
THERE ARE SO MANY CANDIDATES.
>> IT DEPENDS ON THE CANDIDATE.
IT'S IMPORTANT FOR EVERYBODY TO
WIN BUT IT'S MORE IMPORTANT FOR
OTHERS. IF AMY KLOBUCHAR DOES
NOT BREAK 15% IN PRECINCTS SHE
WILL BE IN BIG TROUBLE. THIS IS
OBVIOUSLY THAT SHE IS A FAVORITE
DAUGHTER AND THAT MINNESOTA IS
RIGHT UP NORTH. THAT WOULD BE A
BIG PROBLEM FOR HER. BERNIE
SANDERS PROBABLY NEEDS AT LAST.
HE WILL LIKELY WIN IN NEW
HAMPSHIRE WHERE HE'S THE
FAVORITE SON. BUT, AS SOMEONE
LIKE JOE BIDEN WHO IS VERY
IMPORTANT FOR HIM TO WIN BUT HE
HAS STRONGER SUPPORT IN THE
LATER CONTEST. IN SOUTH CAROLINA
HE WILL WIN IN NEVADA HE HAS
SUPPORT. IT'S REALLY MORE
IMPORTANT
FOR PERHAPS NOT QUITE THE TOP OF
THE FIRST YEAR CANDIDATES TO
BREAK THROUGH.
>> WHO ARE YOU WATCHING JAMES?
>> AMY KLOBUCHAR, IF SHE IS NOT
VIABLE IN A LOT OF THESE TONIGHT
SHE IS OVER. FOR A MINUTE, I
WOULD NOT CALL HER A FAVORITE
DAUGHTER. THERE'S TENSION
HISTORICALLY BETWEEN IOWA AND
MINNESOTA BUT IF SHE CAN'T DO
WELL IN IOWA SHE CAN'T DO WELL
IN NEW HAMPSHIRE. IF SHE
OVER PERFORMS, SHE IS THE PERSON
WHO IS ACTUALLY MOST SURPRISING
THAT SHE IS NOT DOING WELL. SHE
HAS GOTTEN TO BE A BETTER
CANDIDATE. WE HAVEN'T
TALKED ABOUT THIS PACKAGE BUT
THAT'S THE FACTOR HERE IN IOWA.
THESE FOUR SENATORS MICHAEL
BENNET FOCUSED ON NEW HAMPSHIRE
. THREE SENATORS ON JURY DUTY,
OUT OF THE STATE THAT HAVE AN
IMPACT AND I THINK IT'S CLEAR
FROM REPORTING THAT
AMY KLOBUCHAR WAS HURT THE MOST
BECAUSE WARREN AND SANDERS HAD
MONEY AND ORGANIZATION.
KLOBUCHAR GETTING MOMENTUM LATE
IN GETTING BIG ENDORSEMENTS FROM
NOT JUST THE NEW YORK TIMES THAT
SHE GOT WITH WARREN IN THE QUAD
CITY PAPER. PEOPLE WHO WERE
HAVING DOUBTS ABOUT BIDEN, SHE
IS THE OBVIOUS PERSON TO GO TO.
PETE BUTTIGIEG HAD SOME OF
THE  BARK KNOCKED OFF AFTER HE
TOOK SOME HITS WHEN HE LED IN
THE POLLS. KLOBUCHAR IS SOMEONE
WHO IS MORE I THINK THAT ANYONE
IS MAKE OR BREAK. I THINK IT'S
INCREDIBLY FRUSTRATING WHEN YOU
TALK TO PEOPLE IN THE KLOBUCHAR
CAMP. THEY
FEEL --
>> LIKE WASHINGTON.
>> IF THEY HAD TWO MORE WEEKS.
>> I'VE HEARD SOME OF THE
REPORTERS WHO ASKED WHY SHE
CAMPED OUT AND THEY SAID IOWANS
NO BECAUSE THEY'RE TUNED IN BUT
IT'S NOTHING LIKE FACE TIME IN
THE PERSONAL RETAIL POLITICS
IOWA IS SO WELL KNOWN FOR. WE
WILL TALK
ABOUT THAT BUT THERE ARE A LOT
OF KEY QUESTIONS THAT WE ALONG
WITH OUR RESEARCH PARTNERS HAVE
BEEN ASKING IOWA VOTERS AS THEY
HEAD INTO THEIR CAUCUSES . WE
ARE GETTING A MORE CLEAR PICTURE
OF WHAT'S ON THEIR MINDS. LET'S
TOSS BACK NOW TO OUR ELECTION
INSIGHTS TEAM IN THE POSTS DAVID
BYLER.
>> THANK YOU LIBBY. HERE WE HAVE
THE FIRST STREAM OF DATA COMING
IN IN WASHINGTON, D.C.. EARLY
ENTRANCE POLLS OF IOWA CAUCUS
GOERS. HERE WITH ME IS EMILY
WHO IS HALF OF THE POSTPONING
TEAM. SHE DOES OUR IN-HOUSE
SURVEYS AND I AM JUST CURIOUS
ABOUT THESE POLLS. FIRST, ARE
THERE ANY DEMOGRAPHIC PATTERNS
THAT ARE INTERESTING? BUT
REMEMBER THESE ARE ONLY
PRELIMINARY DATA. THEY COULD
CHANGE AS THE EVENING GOES ON.
WE KNOW THAT WITH A VERY LIBERAL
VOTERS THOUGH WHOSE WHO SAID
THEY WERE LIBERAL AND SAID THEY
VOTED FOR SANDERS. OF THOSE WHO
SAID THEY WERE MODERATE
CONSERVATIVE MORE IN THAT GROUP
PULLED FOR BIDEN. AMONG BOTH
GROUPS PETE BUTTIGIEG AND WARREN
ARE BEHIND . BUT PREFERENCE BY
AGE IS ANOTHER INTERESTING TO
LOOK AT. WE WILL SPLIT THE
GROUPS BETWEEN THOSE 45 AND
OLDER AND THOSE YOUNGER THAN 45
AND THOSE YOUNGER WINDS THROUGH
SANDERS BY LARGER MARGIN THAN
THE OLDER ONES WHO WENT FOR
BIDEN IT WAS A WIDER MARGIN.
BUTTIGIEG AND WARREN  EVEN FOR
BOTH GROUPS.
>> THAT'S SO INTERESTING. SORT
OF ALONG THOSE LINES, ONE OF THE
BIG THINGS WE'VE SEEN ARE THOSE
IDEOLOGICAL FIGHTS AND POLICY
FIGHTS AROUND HEALTHCARE, SORT
OF BETWEEN THE PROGRESSIVES AND
THE MODERATES. ARE THERE ANY
INTERESTING PATTERNS THAT YOU
SEE? BUT WE LOOKED AT SOMEWHAT
LIBERAL WHICH IS THE LARGEST
GROUP IN, NOT THE MAJORITY BUT A
PLURALITY OF VOTERS IN THE IOWA
DEMOCRATIC VOTERS. BUTTIGIEG
RECEIVED 1 IN 4
OF THOSE WHILE BIDEN, SANDERS
AND WARREN ARE SLIGHTLY BEHIND
HIM WITH THAT GROUP.
>> THAT'S INTERESTING. LAST
QUESTION, ARE THERE ANY
TOP-LEVEL FINDINGS ARE
INTERESTING NUGGETS THAT ARE
STICKING OUT TO YOU THAT YOU SAY
THAT IS SOMETHING I WOULD LIKE
OUR AUDIENCE TO KNOW? BUT YEAH,
WE LOOKED AT THOSE WHO MADE
THEIR MINDS UP IN THE LAST FEW
DAYS. ABOUT 3 IN 10 OF THE
VOTERS IN THE IOWA CAUCUSES MADE
UP THEIR MINDS IN THE LAST FEW
DAYS WHICH IS INTERESTING AND
THAT'S MORE THAN 2016. BIDEN AND
BUTTIGIEG PULLED IN MORE OF
THEIR SUPPORT  AMONG THIS GROUP
THAN
OTHER CANDIDATES. IN THOSE WHO
DECIDED EARLIER WHICH IS 6 IN 10
VOTERS OF ROUGHLY SANDERS HAD
THE EDGE AND THEN BUTTIGIEG,
WARREN AND BIDEN ARE CLOSE
BEHIND.
>> THANK YOU FOR BEING HERE AND
TALKING TO US. WE WILL HAVE MORE
ON THESE NUMBERS AT ALL SORTS OF
OTHER THINGS THROUGHOUT THE
NIGHT. BACK TO YOU, LIBBY.
>> THANK YOU, DAVID. LET'S CHECK
BACK IN WITH OUR CAUCUS SITES.
HANNA JEWELL IS AT A SITE AT
DRAKE UNIVERSITY.
>>
Reporter: HELLO. THAT QUIET IN
CONCENTRATION YOU CAN HEAR AND
FEEL IN THE AIR AS PEOPLE ARE
DOING THAT. WE ARE COMING TO THE
END OF THE FIRST ALIGNMENT AND
WE ARE ON THE FLOOR BUT WE HAVE
STICKERS SO WE DON'T
ACCIDENTALLY CAUCUS AND CREATE A
SCANDAL. I WANT TO TALK TO MARIE
WHO IS A VOLUNTEER. NOT A PAID
CAMPAIGN WORKER, SHE WANTS US TO
KNOW FOR THE PETE BUTTIGIEG
CAMPAIGN. OUR THING SO FAR FOR
YOU? PARK  IT LOOKS LIKE WE ARE
DOING PRETTY GOOD. THEY ARE
COUNTING BUT WE ARE IN ROWS OF
10. THE VIABILITY THRESHOLD IS
61 AND IT LOOKS LIKE WE'VE MADE
THAT.
>> Reporter: I HAVE A MISSION
22%? AWESOME. THAT'S WHAT I'M
BEING TOLD. IT'S THE FIRST
ALIGNMENT, HOW DOES IT FEEL? BUT
THAT FEELS REALLY GOOD. OH MY
GOD. IT LOOKS LIKE AMY AND YANG
AND I CANNOT SEE BIDEN BUT THEY
NOT BE VIABLE. IT LOOKS LIKE WE
WILL GO REALLY HARD AT THE
KLOBUCHAR PEOPLE.
>> Reporter: WHAT IS YOUR PITCH
IF I'M A SUPPORTER?
>> I THINK BOTH PETE AND AMY
HAVE REALLY STRONG MODERATE
POLICIES BUT I THINK PETE IS
ABILITY TO INSPIRE PEOPLE HAS
OUTSHINED
AMY'S ABILITY, PETE STARTED FROM
ZERO NAME RECOGNITION THAT'S NOT
WHERE AMY STARTED FROM. THIS
ENTIRE CAMPAIGN HAS BEEN BUILT
FROM NOTHING IN A YEAR AND I
THINK THAT SHOWS THE POWER THAT
PETE HAS TO MOBILIZE PEOPLE AND
GET THEM INSPIRED AND JUST THIS
ATTITUDE OF BELONGING THAT THE
CAMPAIGN HAS. THAT'S WHAT I
WOULD SAY TO AMY PEOPLE LIKE THE
POLICIES ARE SIMILAR BUT WE HAVE
A GOOD VIBE OVER HERE.
>> Reporter: EARLIER WE WERE
WORRIED ABOUT HOW MANY PEOPLE
WERE FILTERING AND. YOU HAD
COMPASS CAUCUS EARLIER. I CAN'T
GET COUNTED. I WILL JUST TELL
YOU. OH, WE
ARE BACK. WE ARE ALL GOOD I DID
NOT GET COUNTED. YOU HAD A MOCK
CAUCUS WHERE NO ONE'S TURNING UP
FOR SANDERS. THEY SAID THEY DID
NOT ADVERTISE.
>> IT WAS A SATELLITE CAUCUS.
>> THE MOCK ONE. THE SATELLITE
CAUCUS WAS SOLID SANDERS. TELL
ME WHY YOU WERE NERVOUS ABOUT
SANDERS SUPPORTERS?
>> I THINK THEY ARE MOBILIZED
AND THEY HAVE A LOT OF ENERGY. I
THINK THERE CAMPAIGN
TENDS TO DO CHAOTIC STUFF. YOU
ARE ALWAYS NERVOUS ABOUT WHAT
WILL HAPPEN. I RESPECT BERNIE
SANDERS AND EVERYONE INVOLVED
BUT THEY CAN GET INTO WILD
STRATEGIES TO SET THE ROOM IN A
CHAOTIC MOOD. I WAS NERVOUS BUT
WE WILL SEE.
>> Reporter: YOU DON'T
LIKE CHAOS?
>> CAUCUSES ARE HARD AS IT IS.
YOU CAN SEE THERE ARE A LOT OF
LINING PEOPLE UP AND COUNTING
AND GETTING PEOPLE TO STAY STILL
AND STAY ORGANIZED. CHAOS, IT
DOES NOT HELP BUT I HAVE FRIENDS
AND THEY ARE COOL.
>> Reporter: WOULD YOU PREFER
YOUR A
PRIMARY SYSTEM?
>> I THINK PRIMARY SYSTEMS ARE
MORE ACCESSIBLE. I THINK THAT'S
IMPORTANT ESPECIALLY THE
DEMOCRATIC PARTY IS THE PARTY
TRYING TO CHAMPION PEOPLE WITH
DISABILITIES AND PEOPLE OF COLOR
AND THOSE WHO HAVE TO WORK
DURING THE CAUCUSES. I THINK THE
CAUCUSES ARE COOL BECAUSE THEY
ARE A TRADITION. THEY FEEL
REALLY DEMOCRATIC. YOU ARE
CONVINCING YOUR NEIGHBORS. I
THINK THE DEMOCRATIC PARTY NEEDS
TO BE
THE CHAMPION OF PEOPLE THAT
CAN'T GO TO CAUCUSES. I THINK
THE PRIMARIES ARE GOOD IDEA
MOVING FORWARD.
>> Reporter: WHAT IF THAT MAY
IOWA LESS SPECIAL NEXT TIME?
YOU'RE A PERSON THAT LOVES
POLITICS.
>> SURE. THE THING THAT KEEPS
IOWA IMPORTANT IS ITS PLACE ON
THE CALENDAR. EVEN GOT SWITCH TO
A PRIMARY OF ITS EARLY IMMEDIATE
ATTENTION WILL STILL BE HERE.
>> Reporter: THAT'S TRUE ARE YOU
FEELING LESS SANCTIONS? BUT YET.
>> Reporter: WE WILL COME BACK
AFTER THE REALIGNMENT.
>> THANK YOU HANNAH KEEP YOUR
MEDIA
STICKER ON. WE HAVE BREAKING
NEWS THE REPUBLICAN CAUCUS HAS
BEEN CALLED FOR PRESIDENT DONALD
TRUMP. PRESIDENT DONALD TRUMP
THE WINNER OF THE REPUBLICAN
CAUCUS THAT'S ALSO GOING ON
TONIGHT BUT NO REAL CONTEST
COMPARED TO WHAT'S HAPPENING IN
THE DEMOCRATIC SIDE OF THE
FIELD. WE WILL BRING YOU RESULTS
AS THEY ARE RELEASED
THROUGHOUT IOWA PRECINCT BY
PRECINCT. STAY TUNED TO " THE
WASHINGTON POST " FOR THE
DEMOCRATIC RESULTS.  BUT IN THE
MEANTIME LET'S GO TO JOYCE KOH
IN COUNCIL BLUFFS AT A CAUCUS
SITE.
>>
Reporter: HELLO. WE ARE STANDING
BY AS WE AWAIT THE NUMBERS FOR
REALIGNMENT. LABOR LINCOLN HIGH
SCHOOL IN COUNCIL BLUFFS. THERE
ARE JUST TO GIVE YOU THE WIDE
PICTURE THERE ARE 153 CAUCUSERS
THAT STARTED IN THE ROOM. THE
15% VIABILITY THRESHOLD WAS 23
PEOPLE. EACH CAMPAIGNS HAD TO
GET 23 PEOPLE TO CAUCUS WITH
HIM. THESE WERE THE RESULTS OF
THE FIRST ALIGNMENT. PETE
BUTTIGIEG WAS THE  WINNER AT 35,
THIS IS JUST IN THE FIRST
ALIGNMENT. THAN THE NUMBERS CAME
DOWN TO BIDEN 31, KLOBUCHAR THEY
JUST THAT A RECOUNT HER NUMBER
WAS 30. ELIZABETH WARREN 28 AND
BERNIE SANDERS 24. THE ONLY
NON-VIABLE CANDIDATE WAS YANG.
YANG HAD FOUR SUPPORTERS. THERE
WERE A BUNCH OF OTHER CAMPAIGNS
AROUND THE TABLE TRYING TO
CONVINCE THOSE VOTERS TO SIT
WITH THEIR CAMPAIGN. I DID SEE
ONE YANG SUPPORTER GO OVER TO
BUTTIGIEG . BUTTIGIEG'S CAMPAIGN
, THEY STARTED TO CHEER AND THEY
WERE HAPPY TO GET THE ONE VOTER.
I'M NOT SURE WHERE THE OTHER
YANG VOTER WENT. I ALSO SAW TWO
YANG VOTERS WALKOUT THE DOOR.
THAT IS
ANOTHER OPTION. THEY CAN CHOOSE
TO ENTIRELY GO HOME IF THEIR
FIRST CANDIDATE DOES NOT GET
ENOUGH VOTES TO BE VIABLE. RIGHT
NOW, WE ARE WAITING TO HEAR WHAT
THE NEW NUMBERS ARE.
I BELIEVE BUTTIGIEG WILL STILL
BE IN THE LEAD WHEN THEY
ANNOUNCE THE REALIGNMENT
NUMBERS.  ONE THING I WANT TO
MENTION, WE WERE OVERHEARING
SOME CONVERSATIONS BETWEEN THE
YANG SUPPORTERS
AND EVERYONE THAT WAS TRYING TO
CONVINCE THEM TO GO TO THEIR
CAMPAIGN. ONE INTERESTING THING
TO NOTE IS THAT ONE OF THE
VOTERS SAID HE WAS CONSIDERING
DO I VOTE FOR A MORE PROGRESSIVE
OR MODERATE CANDIDATE. IN THE
END,  HE SAID HE CHOSE BUTTIGIEG
BECAUSE HE FELT  A MORE MODERATE
CANDIDATE WOULD APPEAL TO BOTH
SIDES AND ULTIMATELY DEFEAT
DONALD TRUMP. WE WILL BRING YOU
THE RESULTS OUT OF THIS PRECINCT
LOCATION ONCE WE GET THE FINAL
RESULTS. THEY ARE COUNTING THEM
RIGHT NOW. BUT FOR NOW, BACK TO
YOU LIBBY.
>> THANKS SO
MUCH, JOYCE. IT'S SO AMAZING TO
SEE THE PROCESS TAKING PLACE IN
YOU CAN SEE THERE WAS SOMEONE
WITH THE WARREN RE-SYNCED
CAPTAIN T-SHIRT TALKING. YOU'VE
ATTENDED THESE CAUCUSES?
>> I'M REALLY GLAD THAT WE HAVE
THESE REPORTS THEY WERE BOTH
DELIGHTFUL. YOU SAW WITH THAT
BUTTIGIEG SUPPORTER THAT  THESE
ARE MY FRIENDS AND THAT'S WHAT
IT IS
LIKE AT THESE EVENTS AND WE ARE
ALSO GETTING THE COLLEGE CAMPUS
FEEL IN THE RURAL IOWA FIELD.
THESE ARE INDIVIDUAL SITES NOT
NECESSARY SAMPLES. THERE'S BEEN
A TON OF MANEUVERING BEHIND THE
SCENES AT THE OPERATIVE LEVEL TO
TRY TO MAKE SPECIAL DEALS. THESE
ARE HISTORICALLY COMMON. THERE
IS A LOT
OF PRECEDENCE FOR A CAMPAIGN
WILL ENCOURAGE THEIR SUPPORTERS
TO GO TO SOMEONE ON THE SECOND
BALLOT BUT WHAT WE JUST SAW IS
WHY THAT IS HARD. THERE MAY BE
SOME KIND OF DEAL WHERE ANDREW
YANG'S CAMPAIGN AGREES WITH
BERNIE'S CAMPAIGN TO DO
SOMETHING. THAT'S NOT IN
PRACTICE ON THE GROUND COME OF
THERE
ARE INDIVIDUALS. THEY ARE NOT SO
WEDDED TO YANG THEY WILL LISTEN
TO A STRATEGIST. THEY WILL GO
WITH THEIR GOT AND LISTEN TO
THEIR NEIGHBORS MAKE A PITCH,
FOR WHY WARREN IS BETTER OR WHY
WHOEVER IS BETTER. THAT IS WHY
THESE DEALS, WHICH WE'VE WRITTEN
ABOUT SO MUCH BUT WITH A GRAIN
OF CAUTION BECAUSE WHAT WE JUST
HEARD, WHICH IS PEOPLE AREN'T
JUST LISTENING TO WHAT THE
CAMPAIGNS WOULD NECESSARILY TELL
THEM TO DO ON KIND OF THE MOST
BASIC MATH LEVEL. WE ARE SEEING
THE RESORTING. THE OTHER THING,
NOT REPRESENTATIVE OF THE STATE
THAT WAS INTERESTING FROM
JOYCE'S REPORT. ALL OF BUT ONE
PERSON IS VIABLE. THAT SUPPORTS
THE IDEA THAT THERE WILL BE A
LOT OF PEOPLE WHO DO WELL OUT OF
THAT. THOSE EMILY GUSKIN NUMBERS
WERE FASCINATING.
>> I'LL TALK ABOUT THOSE IN A
MOMENT BUT FIRST PROFESSOR AS WE
WATCH THE ALIGNMENTS, WHAT
HAPPENS IF A LOT OF CANDIDATES
AT THE 15%? HOW MANY TICKETS OUT
OF IOWA?
>> A LOT OF CANDIDATES WILL
DECLARE THEMSELVES THE WINNER.
WE MAY SEE THREE OR FOUR WINNERS
COMING OUT OF IOWA AT LEAST
SELF-DECLARED. OBVIOUSLY, THE
REAL NUMBER THAT MATTERS IS THE
STATE DELEGATE EQUIVALENTS WILL
BE ANNOUNCED AS ONE
OF THREE PIECES OF INFORMATION
THAT WILL BE ANNOUNCED LATER. WE
WILL SEE A LOT OF SPIN BEFORE WE
GET THE STATE DELEGATE
EQUIVALENTS COMING OUT. THIS IS
PART OF WHY IT'S SO INCREDIBLY
DIFFICULT TO PULL WE'RE. IS THE
REALIGNMENT SAYS THE PROCESS
THAT SO DIFFERENT FROM
A PRIMARY. IT'S HARD TO KNOW
WHAT'S GOING TO HAPPEN. YOU CAN
DO AN ENTRANCE POLL AT A CAUCUS
BUT THAT DOESN'T GIVE YOU THE
FINAL RESULTS.
>> HOW HAVE YOU BEEN WATCHING
REALIGNMENTS OR HOW CAUCUS GOERS
SAY I LIKE THIS PERSON BUT MY
SECOND CHOICE IS SO-AND-SO.
>> BERNIE SANDERS HAS A STRONG
PRIMARY SUPPORT BUT SEEMS TO BE
A LITTLE MORE WEAK ON SECOND
CHOICE.
SOMEONE LIKE ELIZABETH WARREN
AND ALL THE POLLS I'VE SEEN HER
NUMBERS ARE STRONG ON SECOND
CHOICE. IF THERE ARE DISTRICTS
WHERE SANDERS IS NOT VIABLE
WHICH WE MIGHT EXPECT IN A MORE
RURAL AREA OR
OLDER POPULATIONS, THOSE NUMBERS
ME GO TO ELIZABETH WARREN WHO'S
IN THE SAME LANE AS BERNIE IN
TERMS OF IDEOLOGY.
>> LET'S TALK ABOUT THE
ENTRANCE POLLS. THE INFORMATION
EMILY GUSKIN SHARED. WHAT IS
STANDING OUT EUGENE IN TERMS OF
THE INITIAL DATA? BACK IT LOOKED
AS IF A LOT OF THE IDEAS WE HAVE
ABOUT DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS
MILLENNIALS AND OLDER VOTERS AND
RURAL VOTERS AND URBAN VOTERS
SEEM TO BE CONFIRMED A BIT, SO
FAR IN THE DATA SHE GAVE US. IT
IS STILL EARLY. ANYTHING COULD
HAPPEN. THERE
IS NOTHING ANYONE SHOULD HANG
ONTO. THIS IS DATA WE'VE BEEN
LOOKING AT FOR A WHILE EVEN
NATIONALLY AND HAVE SEEN SOME
SUPPORT. I THINK IT WILL BE
REALLY INTERESTING TO SEE WHAT
CANDIDATES DO IN THE COUNTIES
THEY ARE NOT EXPECTED TO PERFORM
REALLY WELL IN AND WHAT THAT
WILL MEAN AND INDICATE MOVING
FORWARD.
>> WE RECEIVED EXIT POLLS LIKE
THESE WERE ENTRANCE POLLS
BECAUSE THEY SPEAK TO CAUCUS
GOERS AS THEY HAD IN.
>> WE DID NOT GET SEE
THE PROFESSOR. WE DID NOT KNOW
HOW MANY PEOPLE WERE SO
UNDECIDED
>> ONE POLL THAT COMES OUT
BEFORE THE CAUCUS DID NOT COME
OUT  DUE TO AN ERROR THAT THEY
HAVE SAID, NEGATED THE POLL
RESULTS SO THEY PULLED IT. THEY
DID NOT RELEASE IT. IT'S SO MUCH
MORE OF A MYSTERY ABOUT THE LATE
DECIDERS.
>> WE KNEW THAT THERE WERE A LOT
SO IT SOUNDS ON THE ENTRANCE
POLL THAT IT WAS 3 IN 10 NOT
INSIGNIFICANT TO DECIDE. THOSE
FOLKS WERE BREAKING TOWARD
BIDEN AND BUTTIGIEG. IT'S NOT
TOTALLY SURPRISING BECAUSE IF
YOU ARE FOR BERNIE SANDERS YOU
ARE FOR BERNIE SANDERS.  YOU ARE
NOT LIKE OH MAYBE ON FOR BERNIE
SANDERS OLD YOUR BIDEN. YOU MAY
BE FOR ERNIE THE WHOLE TIME AND
THEY BEEN ORGANIZING TO IDENTIFY
THOSE PEOPLE AND ACTIVATE THOSE
PEOPLE TO GET THEM INVOLVED BUT
NO ONE IS BREAKING HIS WAY LATE.
ELIZABETH WARREN
IS SOMEONE WHO I THINK HAD HOPED
TO BENEFIT FROM THE LATE
DECIDERS THAT SHE WAS DOING WELL
IN THE SUMMER AND LOST SOME
OXYGEN, PARTLY BECAUSE SHE WAS
STUCK BETWEEN THE TWO POLES OF
THE CANDIDATES. IT WAS
INTERESTING
THAT EMILY AND HER REPORT THAT
OUR NUMBERS DO NOT SHOW THAT SHE
WAS WHEN PEOPLE THAT BENEFITED
FROM THE LATE DECIDERS. IT
DOESN'T MEAN SHE DIDN'T DO WELL
EARLIER BUT IT DOES SUGGEST SHE
DID NOT HAVE THE MOMENTUM THAT
PERHAPS HER CAMPAIGN HAD HOPED
FOR.
>> THE IMPEACHMENT TRIAL OF
PRESIDENT DONALD TRUMP IS
WRAPPING UP THIS WEEK BUT IT'S
OVERSHADOWED THE IOWA CAUCUS
BECAUSE CANDIDATES WERE LOCKED
IN WASHINGTON. RHONDA COLEMAN
HAS BEEN FOLLOWING EVERY TWIST
AND TURN AND JOINS US.
>> HOW ARE THEY BALANCING
CAMPAIGNING WITH THEIR DAY JOBS?
>> Reporter: THERE ARE
APPROACHES HAVE BEEN DIFFERENT.
SENATOR KLOBUCHAR AND SENATOR
WARREN HAVE NOT BEEN SHYING AWAY
FROM CAMERAS. EACH DAY OF THESE
PROCEEDINGS THEY HAVE FOUND
REPORTERS AND MADE COMMENTS.
THEY WANT TO CONVEY TO THE
VOTERS THAT THEY CAN WALK AND
CHEW GUM AT THE SAME TYPE.
THEY'VE SAID THAT IN SOME OF
THEIR COMMENTS. I WANTED TO
LISTEN
TO SENATOR KLOBUCHAR FROM THIS
MORNING WHICH ILLUSTRATES MY
POINT.
>> I MY MOM I CAN DO TWO THINGS
AT ONCE. I WILL BE HEADED BACK
TO IOWA. AND I WAS JUST WITH OUR
TEAM LATE LAST NIGHT. WE'VE HAD
HUGE EVENTS WHEREVER WE GO. WE
ARE FEELING GOOD ABOUT THE
SURGE. WE ARE KEEPING ONGOING.
I'M PUNCHING BEYOND MY WAY WHEN
YOU LOOK AT MONEY PEOPLE HAVE
BEEN SPENDING. WE HAVE BEEN MUCH
MORE FRUGAL AND THAT'S WHY I AM
STILL STANDING. I THINK PEOPLE
PREDICTED WHEN I WAS IN THAT
BLIZZARD, I WOULD NOT MAKE IT
THROUGH MY ANNOUNCEMENT MUCH
LESS TO THIS POINT IN THE
CAMPAIGN. WE KEEP GOING.
>> Reporter: NOW, ON THE OTHER
HAND BERNIE SANDERS HAS NOT
REALLY SOUGHT OUT ANY MEDIA. HE
HAS NOT STOPPED THE REPORTERS IN
THE HALLWAY AND WHEN HE HAS
THEY'VE BEEN SHORT COMMENTS. BUT
HE IS THE FRONT RUNNER SO
PERHAPS HE DOESN'T FEEL HE NEEDS
TO DO THAT. SENATOR MICHAEL
BENNET IS STILL IN THE RACE AND
HIS CAMP SAID THEY ARE WILL
FOCUS ON NEW HAMPSHIRE AND IN
FACT HE'S ONLY BEEN TO IOWA ONCE
IN THE LAST MONTH. HE HAS BEEN
TO NEW HAMPSHIRE 50 TIMES FOR 50
TOWN HALLS.
HIS TONE.
>>
THANK YOU. RHONDA HAS BEEN
SURROUNDED BY REPORTERS
IN COLLEGE. CAPITOL HILL HAS
BEEN SO BUSY AND IT WILL BE SO
BUSY TOMORROW NIGHT AT THE STATE
OF THE UNION. THERE ARE SO MANY
HISTORIC EVENTS BACK TO BACK
THIS WEEK. THIS HAS BEEN A REAL
BLOW TO THE SENATORS WHO BEEN
STUCK IN WASHINGTON ACTING AS
JURORS. WE MAY LOOK BACK
ON THAT AND WE WILL SEE HOW
INFLUENTIAL IT WAS OR ULTIMATELY
NOT INFLUENTIAL ON THEIR ABILITY
TO PERFORM. WHAT WAS YOUR SENSE
OF IT
THIS WEEKEND?
>> ONE THING I NOTICED THIS
WEEKEND WITH THE SENATOR'S
ABSENCE IS HOW IMPORTANT IT IS
TO HAVE HIGH PROFILE SURROGATES.
I WENT TO ELIZABETH WARREN
RALLY'S WHERE THE SENATOR WAS
ABSENT BECAUSE SHE WAS VOTING.
BUT REPRESENTATIVE AYANNA
PRESSLEY WAS THERE A MEMBER OF
THE SQUAD. JULIAN CASTRO FORMER
HOUSE SECRETARY WHO HAD A HIGH
PROFILE PRESIDENTIAL
CAMPAIGN HIMSELF. ONCE THE
EVENTS WHERE BERNIE SANDERS WAS
NOT
REPRESENTED BUT ILHAN OMAR WAS
THERE. AMY KLOBUCHAR HAS NOT HAD
HIGH PROFILE SENATORS OR
SURROGATE SHOULD I SAY.
>> SHE'S BEEN TALKING ABOUT
HAVING MORE OF A GRASSROOTS
SURROGATES.
>> SHE HAS A CURLING WINNER? HER
DAUGHTER ABIGAIL HAS BEEN OUT
SHE'S 24 AND VERY IMPRESSIVE.
>> SHE WAS TAKING OVER HER
SOCIAL MEDIA AND AMY" SHAR WAS
TOUTING ABOUT THE REAL PEOPLE.
>> PEGGY FLANAGAN THE NEW
LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR THE
HIGHEST-RANKING NATIVE AMERICAN
PUBLIC OFFICIAL. SHE'S BEEN
CAMPAIGNING BUT YOU ARE RIGHT.
IT'S NOT THE SQUAD. IT'S NOT AOC
AND I THINK KLOBUCHAR WILL
ACKNOWLEDGE THAT.
>> THE
QUESTION IS, IF SHE CAN GET
THOSE SURROGATES OR THE HOME
GROUND SURROGATES TO CONNECT
PERSONALLY BUT THAT MIGHT MAKE A
DIFFERENCE IN TERMS OF THE
RETAIL POLITICKING BUT IT MAY
NOT BEING PEOPLE TO
YOUR RALLY. NO ONE WILL WANT TO
COME AND SEE THE CURLING CHAMP
TO SEE AOC.
>> IT'S TRUE. WE TALKED ABOUT
HOW THE PEOPLE WHO ARE
PARTICIPATING ARE LIKE POLITICAL
GEEKS. THEY ARE LIKE OH WOW,
I'VE NEVER BEEN TO MASSACHUSETTS
THAT I KNOW THIS CONGRESSPERSON
AND I'M WILLING TO WAIT AN HOUR
AFTER THE EVENT THAT WAS
SUPPOSED TO START TO
GO HERE. WE SEE THE POWER
OF SURROGATES. I'M WATCHING THAT
BECAUSE I'M WONDERING HOW THAT
WHILE PEOPLE IN NEW HAMPSHIRE
AND SOUTH CAROLINA, ESPECIALLY
BECAUSE THE PURPOSE OF
SURROGATES IS TO HELP YOU WITH
COMMUNITIES YOU MAY NOT BE DOING
SO
WELL WITH ON YOUR OWN. IT WILL
BE INTERESTING TO SEE HOW
CANDIDATES WHO ARE NOT THAT
POPULAR AND DON'T HAVE POPULAR
SURROGATES ARE ABLE
TO DO.
>> PROFESSOR, HOW HAS THE
ABSENCE OF THOSE CANDIDATES
SHAPED THINGS?
>> IT
KILLS MOMENTUM, IF YOU ARE
HAVING RALLIES AND SUDDENLY YOU
CAN'T HAVE RALLIES. MOMENTUM
SEEMS TO MATTER A LOT IN THESE
EVENTS. PERHAPS IF THE CAUCUSES
HAD BEEN HELD TWO OR THREE
MONTHS EARLIER, ELIZABETH WARREN
WOULD BE COMING OUT STRONGER
THAN SHE
IS TODAY. I MEAN JUST BEING AWAY
FROM THE CAMPAIGN TRAIL MAKES A
DIFFERENCE BUT ON THE OTHER HAND
A POTENTIALLY HELPS OTHER
CANDIDATES WHO CAN AVOID THE
WASHINGTON SHOW, PEOPLE LIKE JOE
BIDEN WHO NO LONGER HAS TO
PRESIDE OVER THE SENATE AS VICE
PRESIDENT. POTENTIALLY, THAT
GIVES HIM AN ADVANTAGE ALTHOUGH
IT'S HARD TO KNOW AND IT'S HARD
TO MEASURE
THESE THINGS AS A POLITICAL
SCIENTIST. THIS IS TOUGH TO DO
TO WHAT EXTENT THAT IT MATTERS
WE KNOW IT MATTERS SOME BUT WE
DON'T KNOW HOW MUCH.
>> WHEN WILL
YOU KNOW? WILL YOU TELL US
TOMORROW OR WILL IT TAKE A YEAR?
HOW DO YOU CALCULATE THESE
THINGS?
>> THANKFULLY, THAT IS NOT -- WE
HAVE SOME TIME IT'S NOT
SOMETHING I HAVE TO DO.
>> HOW UNIQUE IS THAT FEEL TO
HAVE THE SENATORS LOCKED
IN WASHINGTON?
>> THERE HAVE NOT BEEN ONLY
THREE IMPEACHMENT TRIAL SO THE
NATIONAL MEDIA ATTENTION WAS
THERE. IT WAS NOT ON THE JURORS.
IT WAS ON THE LAWYERS
PRESENTING. IT WAS ON PRESIDENT
DONALD TRUMP. I THINK THAT
MATTERS SOME BUT WHO KNOWS HOW
MUCH. I GUESS WE WILL FIND OUT.
>> THE CAMERAS WERE NOT ON THE
JURORS OR THE SENATORS
BECAUSE JOURNALISTS DID NOT GET
TO ROLL THE CAMERAS IN THE
SENATE. IT WAS FEED CONTROLLED
BY THE SENATE SO OUR REPORTERS
COULD LOOK IN AND SEE THE
SENATORS LIKE SENATOR SANDERS
STARING BLANKLY AS THE
>>> DON. EVERYTHING WAS
HAPPENING BUT THEY WERE ABLE TO
GET BACK THIS WEEKEND AND HIT
THE TRAIL ONE LAST TIME BEFORE
HEADING TO WASHINGTON. LET'S GO
BACK
TO WASHINGTON WHERE DAVID BYLER
IS AND HE CAN TAKE US BACK TO
SOME OTHER INFLUENTIAL CAUCUS
RESULTS AND PUT TONIGHT INTO
CONTEXT. JOKE
THANKS LIBBY. HERE AT
HEADQUARTERS IN WASHINGTON, D.C.
WE BEEN PARSING THROUGH THE
HISTORICAL DATA. WE'VE BEEN
LOOKING AT CONTENDERS IN PAST
YEARS AND NOW CONGRESS SHOOK
OUT. THE FINDINGS
HAVE BEEN THAT THE IOWA CAUCUS
DOES NOT ALWAYS CROWN THE
NOMINEE BUT IT OFTEN DOES HELP
PEOPLE GET TO THE FINALS. IF WE
LOOK BACK INTO THE HISTORICAL
RECORD WE CAN LOOK AT THE 2016
DEMOCRATIC CAUCUS IS. WE HAVE
HILLARY CLINTON BARELY EDGING
BERNIE SANDERS OUT IN THAT YEAR.
IF YOU REMEMBER, HILLARY CLINTON
WAS LEADING FOR ALL OF 2015 WITH
A REALLY LARGE MARGIN. SANDERS
SORT OF ATE AWAY AT THAT MARGIN
AND GOT CLOSE IN IOWA. THAT SORT
OF HELPED HIM SNOWBALL AND GAIN
MOMENTUM ENTERING THE CONTEST
INTO A SORT OF PROTRACTED FIGHT.
HILLARY CLINTON CAP THE LEAD BUT
THAT'S HOW HIS CHALLENGE GOT
LEGS. THAT SAME YEAR, ON THE
REPUBLICAN
SIDE, WE REALLY HAD A WILD
ELECTION NIGHT IF YOU REMEMBER
THAT FOUR YEARS AGO. WE HAD
DONALD TRUMP LEADING IN THE
PRE-ELECTION POLLS BUT COMING IN
SECOND IN THE FINAL COUNT. YOU
HAD TED CRUZ, JUMPING AHEAD OF
HIM. MARCO RUBIO WENT FROM A
DISTANT THIRD INTO A REALLY
CLOSE THIRD WITH TRUMP. NOW, AS
WE ALL KNOW TRUMP ENDED UP
WINNING THE NOMINATION AFTER
GETTING SECOND AND I WHAT. THAT
SHAPED THE RACE. TED CRUZ WAS
ABLE TO CONSOLIDATE HIS BLOCK
THERE AND THAT GAVE HIM
LONGEVITY AND MADE HIM A TOP
CONTENDER. MARCO RUBIO WAS ABLE
TO SURGE AFTER THAT TEMPORARILY
AND ALSO BECOME ONE OF TOM'S
TOUGHER COMPETITORS IN THAT
CONTEST. IOWA SHAPED THE RACE
FOUR YEARS AGO ON THE REPUBLICAN
SIDE. IF WE THINK BACK BEFORE
THAT WE CAN REMEMBER WHEN RICK
SANTORUM SURGED AT THE END AND
BARELY BEAT MITT ROMNEY. THIS
WAS SUCH A WILD CONTEST.
THROUGHOUT THE ENTIRE PRIMARY
MITT ROMNEY WAS BASING OFF
AGAINST A REVOLVING SET OF
SURGEON DECLINE COMPETITORS.
RICK SANTORUM HIT HIS STRIDE AT
THE
RIGHT TIME. IT WAS RIGHT BEFORE
THE CAUCUSES HAPPEN, HE BEAT HIS
POLLS ELECTION DAY AND BARELY
EDGED OUT MITT ROMNEY. THAT
ALLOWED HIM TO BECOME MITT
ROMNEY'S CHIEF COME PREDATOR. HE
LOST TO BARACK OBAMA IN 2012
ELECTION BUT THAT'S HOW SANTORUM
MADE IT TO THE FINALS IN THAT
YEAR. NOW, IF WE THINK BACK TO
FOUR YEARS BEFORE THAT WE HAVE
THAT 2008 DEMOCRATIC CAUCUS
WHICH MAY BE ONE OF THE MOST
IMPORTANT AND WILDEST RESULT OF
ALL THE ONES WE'VE GONE THROUGH
SO FAR. BARACK OBAMA MET A STATE
THAT PEOPLE THOUGHT WOULD NOT BE
GOOD HELPING HIM JUMP IN THE
POLLS TO BECOME THE FRONT
RUNNER. JOHN EDWARDS SLID INTO
SECOND PLACE THAT ALLOWED HIM TO
SURVIVE UNTIL SUPER TUESDAY.
HILLARY CLINTON HAD A
DISAPPOINTING FINISH THAT SHE
REBOUNDED FROM IN NEW HAMPSHIRE.
IT REALLY DID SHAPE THE RACE AND
GIVE OBAMA THAT MOMENTUM HE
NEEDED. THAT IS SOME OF THE
HISTORY WE'VE BEEN LOOKING
THROUGH HERE.
>> OKAY, DO WE EXPECT ANY
HISTORIC OUTCOMES TONIGHT?
>> IT'S HARD TO SAY WHO WOULD
WIN. IF WE DO HAVE A BUTTIGIEG
WIN THAT WOULD BE
HISTORIC  PETE BUTTIGIEG IS THE
FIRST OPENLY MAJOR CANDIDATE IN
EITHER PARTY'S PRIMARY , THAT I
CAN THINK OF IN HISTORY.
ELIZABETH WARREN IS TRYING TO
BECOME THE FIRST FEMALE
PRESIDENT. SHE WANTS TO START IN
IOWA AND RIDE THE MOMENTUM. IT
COULD BE SANDERS
OR BIDEN. IT IS ALL CHAOS RIGHT
NOW IN TERMS OF WHERE THE
DIFFERENT CANDIDATES ARE. BACK
TO YOU, LIBBY.
>> THANK YOU DAVID. THE HISTORY
THAT'S ON THE BACK OF THIS
CAUCUS IS SO INTERESTING TO
RELIVE.
>> I'VE COVERED EVERY SINGLE
ONE. I WAS THERE COVERING IT.
THAT 2012 RACE, ON
ELECTION NIGHT, ROMNEY WAS
DECLARED NARROWLY THE WINNER AND
IT TURNED OUT WHEN EXTRA BALLOTS
CAME IN SANTORUM EVENTUALLY WAS
THE WINNER. IN THE HISTORY BOOKS
IT SAYS RICK SANTORUM OF THE
FRONT PAGE OF THE DES MOINES
REGISTER SAID ROMNEY NARROWLY
WINS. BY THE TIME WE DECLARED
SANTORUM IT WAS ALREADY THE
SOUTH CAROLINA PRIMARY. I WAS A
DINER WITH RICK SANTORUM WHEN
THE IOWA REPUBLIC HE SAID WE
SCREWED UP. SANTORUM TECHNICALLY
WON AND HE WAS LIKE HE SHOULD
LOSE HIS JOB. SANTORUM WAS
INCREDIBLY BITTER AND ANGRY. HE
FELT LIKE HE HAD BEEN DENIED
WHAT WOULD HAVE BEEN THIS BIG
SHOT OF MOMENTUM. AS FAR AS RICK
SANTORUM WAS CONCERNED IT DIDN'T
MATTER.
>> MAYBE FOR THE HISTORY BOOKS
BUT NOT IN THE MOMENT. LET'S
CHECK IN WITH HANNA JEWELL WHOSE
HERE AT DRAKE UNIVERSITY. WHAT'S
GOING ON NOW ?
>> Reporter: THINGS WERE
STRESSFUL HERE IF YOU
HAVE ANXIETY. WE WERE TALKING TO
SOME SANDERS SUPPORTERS WHO HAD
A PLAN TO GO TO A DIFFERENT
CANDIDATE. AS SOON AS THEY
ANNOUNCED AT THE BEGINNING OF
THE REALIGNMENT PERIOD, THEY
SPRINTED PAST ME. IT WAS
AMAZING. I STARTED RUNNING. I'M
GLAD YOU'RE WITH IS NOW. WE ARE
GOING TO TRY TO STICK THE
MICROPHONE INTO SOME
CONVERSATIONS. IT'S CHAOTIC
BECAUSE THAT'S HOW CHAOTIC IT
IS. THEY ARE TRYING TO MAKE CORY
BOOKER VIABLE BECAUSE THEY WORK
FOR HIM PREVIOUSLY. I DON'T KNOW
IF WE KNOW WHERE THESE
LABS ARE. WE DON'T WANT TO HURT
ANYBODY. I'M GOING TO SNEAK IN.
I'M NOT GOING TO GET COUNTED.
TELL US WHAT
YOU'RE DOING?
>> JOE BIDEN IT WASN'T VIABLE SO
WE ARE COMBINING UNDER CORY
BOOKER TO TAKE IT AWAY FROM
BERNIE SANDERS AND ELIZABETH
WARREN.
>> Reporter: EVEN THOUGH HE IS
OUT OF THE RACE AND YOU COULD
JUST LEAVE OF YOUR CANDIDATE
ISN'T VIABLE, WHY DO THIS? WHY
CAUCUS FOR NON-VIABLE CANDIDATE?
>> WE THINK IT'S THE BEST THING
FOR JOE BIDEN'S CAMPAIGN IN THE
LONG RUN.
>> Reporter: THERE'S A STRATEGY.
WAS THIS THE PLAN BEFOREHAND OR
DID YOU JUST COME UP WITH THIS?
>> NO IT WAS NOT A PLAN UNTIL WE
FIGURED OUT WE WEREN'T GOING TO
BE VIABLE AND THEN OUR LEADER
FIGURED IT OUT. JOKE SO I WANT
TO ROAM AROUND. THANK YOU.
>> Reporter: LET'S TRY TO
FIND OKAY, HERE'S A
KLOBUCHAR SUPPORTER.
SHE IS PROUD OF THE PEOPLE WHO
ARE SYMBOLICALLY CAUCUSING
FOR BOOKER.
>> CAN WE SHOUT? HELP, HEIGHT,
HUSTLE. HELP TYPE HUSTLE.
THANK YOU. THEY ARE COMING TO
CONTEST AND THEN WE WILL BE ABLE
TO FILL OUT OUR CURRENT AND THEN
WE CAN GO HOME. THEN WE CAN GO
HOME.
>> Reporter: OKAY, WE'VE HEARD A
PASSIONATE SPEECH FOR CAUCUSING
FOR NONVIABLE CANDIDATES. LOCAL
IT IS. WE HAVE A REPORTER THAT
DOESN'T WANT TO TALK TO US. MORE
OF A WRITTEN WORD MAN. LET'S
FIND SOME SANDERS SUPPORTERS.
THERE WERE SOME WE HAD A PLAN TO
COME IN OH WAIT THERE IS
CONVINCING HAPPENING
OVER HERE.
>> WE ARE TRYING TO SHOW THAT WE
CAN UNIFY AROUND A CANDIDATE. NO
ONE IS
EVEN LISTENING. WE ARE TRYING TO
CONVINCE PEOPLE THAT WE CAN
UNIFY BEHIND THE NOMINEE AND
DEFEAT DONALD TRUMP THE GENERAL
ELECTION. I THINK THE SHOW IS
HERE IS SHOWING WE CAN COME
TOGETHER.
>> Reporter: PEOPLE WHO ARE
CAUCUSING
FOR BOOKER?
>> WHO ARE TRYING TO PULL
DELEGATES AWAY FROM THE OTHER
CANDIDATES.
>> Reporter: I DON'T WANT TO
DISTURB YOU BUT I WANT TO
LISTEN.
>> IT'S NOT VIABLE. TO ACTUALLY
MAKE THE CHANGE.
>> THE VERY ACTION IS IN THAT
SURVIVAL?
>> HE'S VIABLE IN THIS ONE RACE.
EVERYWHERE ELSE IN THE ENTIRE
WORLD HE'S NOT VIABLE. I HAVE A
CORY
BOOKER SHIRT. I LIKE HIM. I WANT
TO MAKE CHANGE IN THIS COUNTRY
AND WE CAN TAKE THE VALUE
KLOBUCHAR AND YANG HAVE AND PUT
THEM TO GOOD USE. WE
CAN MAKE IT HAPPEN. THE POINT IS
TO COME TOGETHER AS A PIRATE.
>> COME
JOIN US.
>> IF YOU CAN CONVINCE ME TO GO
TO KLOBUCHAR. IF YOU CAN
CONVINCE PEOPLE TO VOTE FOR
SOMEONE THAT'S RUNNING THAT
WOULD BE INCREDIBLE. I DON'T SEE
THAT COREY IS RUNNING RIGHT NOW.
I WANT TO MAKE SURE THAT WE ARE
PUTTING OUR EFFORTS IN DEMOCRATS
TOGETHER FOR THE FUTURE INSTEAD
OF FOR SOMEONE WHO'S ALREADY
OUT.
>> Reporter: ARE YOU CONVINCED?
>> NO.
>> Reporter: WHAT WILL YOU DO?
>> I'M GOING TO STICK WITH THE
GROUP.
>> Reporter: YOU ARE WITH THE
KLOBUCHAR GROUP? CARRY-ON.
>> GOOD LUCK. I HOPE IT WORKS
WELL.
>>
Reporter: RUNAROUND, YET WE
DON'T WANT TO BOTHER PEOPLE
WHILE THEY WORK. LOOK AT HIM GO.
LOOK AT THAT SPRIGHTLY YOUTH.
HE'S
MAKING IT. THIS IS A LARGE BOOK
A CREW THAT LOOKS TO BE VIABLE.
WE HAVE BUTTIGIEG SUPPORTERS
LOOKING OVER. WE CAN  RETURN TO
THEM AND PERHAPS THEY ARE
UNHAPPY THAT THERE VERY VIABLE
CANDIDATE ISN'T WINNING PEOPLE
OVER. THIS SEEMS TO BE AN EFFORT
TO WE CAN BE SANDERS AND WARREN
SUPPORT. I'M GOING TO TAKE A
BREATHER. WE WILL COME BACK WITH
MORE. BACK TO YOU FOR NOW,
LIBBY.
>> THANK YOU, HANNAH GRAB SOME
WATER AND TAKE A BREAK. IT WAS
SO FASCINATING. THERE IS A LOT
OF THE ENERGY.  I LOVE HEARING
THE BUTTIGIEG SUPPORTER MAKING
HIS CASE TO THE GUY  WHO WILL
NOW CAUCUS FOR CORY BOOKER EVEN
THOUGH HE'S DROPPED OUT OF THE
RACE.
>> AND THEN SAYING GOODBYE I'M
BEN.
>> THAT WASN'T VERY ACRIMONIOUS.
DECODE THAT MOMENT.
>> IN COLLEGE WE KNOW BERNIE
SANDERS IS POPULAR FOR THOSE
UNDER 30 SO IS ELIZABETH WARREN
SHE HAS THE COLLEGE EDUCATED
WHITE LIBERAL WOMEN. IN
THIS INSTANCE, THERE WERE A
BUNCH OF COLLEGE STUDENTS WHO
CAME FOR KLOBUCHAR AND FOR
BIDEN. DRAKE IS NOT ANY
PARTICULARLY LIBERAL SCHOOL.
IT'S NOT ENOUGH TO BE VIABLE. WE
HEARD FROM THE YOUNG WOMAN, SHE
SAID OUR LEADER TOLD US THAT WE
ARE GOING TO CAUCUS FOR CORY
BOOKER EVEN THOUGH HE DROPPED
OUT OF THE RACE WEEKS AGO. IT
DOESN'T MATTER. YOU ARE
ESSENTIALLY TRYING TO PREVENT OR
WHAT THEY ARE TRYING TO PREVENT
BERNIE SANDERS AND ELIZABETH
WARREN FROM GETTING MORE
DELEGATES BECAUSE THOSE
DELEGATES COULD IN A STATEWIDE
CONTEST BUT BERNIE OR ELIZABETH
OVER JOE BIDEN. THAT IS WHAT
THEY ARE MANEUVERING TO DO.
THAT'S AN INSTANCE WHERE THAT
YOUNG WOMAN IS LISTENING TO THE
BIDEN PRECINCT LEADER WHO SAYS
NOW WE WILL BE FOR CORY BOOKER.
THOSE PEOPLE WERE TRYING TO
CONVINCE SOMEONE FROM ANDREW
YANG
AND KLOBUCHAR TO JOIN THEM FOR
CORY BOOKER AND THE GUY WITH
PETE BUTTIGIEG SAID  WHY WOULD
YOU THROW YOUR VOTE AWAY. THEY
ARE TRYING TO MAKE YOU WASTE
YOUR VOTE COME BE WITH BUTTIGIEG
WHO SHARES THESE VALUES . THESE
ARE
THE BIGGER PRECINCTS WITH MORE
THAN 1600 PRECINCTS WHERE
CONVERSATIONS LIKE THAT ARE
HAPPENING RIGHT NOW IN IOWA.
THAT'S A GREAT WINDOW INTO
WHAT'S GOING ON ACROSS THE
STATE.
>> LET'S GO TO ANOTHER SITE AND
COUNSEL PLOT. JOYCE KOH IS
THERE. WE WILL THROW IT OVER TO
YOU.
>>
Reporter: LIBBY, THINGS HAVE
REALLY STARTED TO WIND DOWN HERE
AS THE VOTE TOTALS JUST
GOT ANNOUNCED. THIS IS THE FINAL
VOTE TOTAL FROM THIS PRECINCT
LOCATION IN COUNCIL BLUFFS. PETE
BUTTIGIEG 36.  JOE BIDEN 31. WE
HAVE AIMING HOME A CHART 30.
WARREN 29 AND SANDERS 25. THERE
WERE 20 DELEGATES UP FOR GRABS
AT THIS LOCATION. THE WINNER AT
THIS LOCATION PETE BUTTIGIEG GOT
FIVE DELEGATES.  I WANT TO BRING
IN THE CAPTAIN VICKI McAFEE TO
TALK ABOUT THIS VICTORY. HOW
DOES IT FEEL AFTER MONTHS OF
CAMPAIGNING AND WORKING HARD FOR
PETE TO FINALLY COME OUT HERE
TONIGHT AND HAVE THIS WIN?
>> I THINK IT'S REALLY IMPORTANT
JUST
TO REMEMBER THAT MOST PEOPLE
THAT ARE INVOLVED IN CAMPAIGNS
ARE ALL VOLUNTEERS.
IT JUST TAKES ALL OF US TO COME
TOGETHER TO GET SOMETHING DONE
THAT'S REALLY POSITIVE. I THINK
THAT THIS IS JUST AN EXAMPLE NOT
ONLY TO PETE'S CAMPAIGN BUT ALL
OF THE CAMPAIGNS. I THINK WE ALL
HAVE ONE COMMON GOAL. PETE'S
TEAM DID GREAT. WE ARE
SUPER HAPPY.
>> Reporter: YOU GUYS WERE ABLE
TO CONVINCE ONE OF THE YANG
SUPPORT IS IN THE REALIGNMENT TO
COME OVER AND SUPPORT FEET. WHAT
DO YOU THINK WOULD BE FINAL
BARGAINING POINT BE THAT
CONVINCED HIM TO COME TO YOUR
CAMPAIGN?
>> THERE WERE FIVE PEOPLE IN
ANDREW CIRCLE. THERE WERE TWO
THAT COULD NOT MAKE THAT
DECISION. THE PERSON THAT CAME
OVER TO
OUR TEAM, BASICALLY SAID THAT HE
WAS STILL UNDECIDED. HE CAME IN
TODAY AND HE WENT BACK TO THE
BREXIT VOTES AND TWO OTHER
VOTES, WORLDWIDE, WHERE THE
PROGRESSIVES JUST DID NOT WIN.
PEOPLE THAT
WERE REALLY TOO FAR RIGHT AND
TOO FAR LEFT. HE FELT SOMEBODY
THAT WAS MORE INCLUSIVE WITH BE
THE CANDIDATE TO GO WITH. HE
CHOSE PETE.
>> Reporter: THIS IS A PRETTY
RED AREA. THE STATE HAD
PRESIDENT DONALD TRUMP WIN IN
2016 DURING THE PRIMARIES. WHAT
DO YOU THINK ARE PETE'S VALUES
THAT RESONATE WITH SO MANY
TONIGHT?
>> PETE HAS RULES OF THE ROAD.
THEY ARE JUST BASIC, GOOD HUMAN
VALUES RESPECT, TRUTH,
BELONGING, BOLDNESS. IF YOU LOOK
AT HIS PETE FOR AMERICA WEBSITE,
IT REALLY SHOWS YOU THE KIND OF
PERSON THAT HE REALLY IS. THE
KIND OF LEADER HE IS AND IN THE
END, IT'S BRINGING EVERYONE
TOGETHER FOR A
COMMON GOOD. HE BACKHANDED IT.
>> Reporter: THANK YOU SO MUCH
FOR JOINING US. CONGRATULATIONS.
LIBBY, I WANT TO SEND IT BACK TO
YOU. IT'S INTERESTING, AS WE SEE
THE RESULTS FROM THE REST OF THE
STATE COME OUT. IT WILL BE
INTERESTING TO SEE HOW COUNCIL
BLUFFS
IS EITHER A DEPARTURE OR IS IN
LINE WITH THE OTHER RESULTS FROM
MORE DEMOCRATIC OR LIBERAL AREAS
OF THE STATE. YOU HEARD ME
MENTION PRESIDENT DONALD TRUMP
WON HERE IN 2016 BERNIE SANDERS
WON HERE. WE WERE WONDERING IF
BERNIE WOULD WIN AGAIN OR IF
THERE WOULD BE A MODERATE
CANDIDATE THAT WON OUT OF
COUNCIL BLUFFS. I THINK WE SAW
OUR ANSWER AT THIS PRECINCT
LOCATION FROM ABE LINCOLN HIGH
SCHOOL IN COUNCIL BLUFFS.
>> THANK YOU, JOYCE KOH. LET'S
BRING IT BACK TO PROFESSOR
HASSID . WHAT ARE YOU
INTERPRETING
OR NOTING ABOUT THESE RESULTS?
THEY ARE ISOLATED PRECINCTS NOT
AN AGGREGATE OR WE CANNOT SAY
THEY REPRESENT WHAT ELSE IS
HAPPENING. WE DON'T KNOW YET BUT
WHAT YOU GET? BUT THIS IS GOOD
NEWS FOR BUTTIGIEG WHOSE PICKED
UP A LARGE PRECINCT.  THIS IS
ALSO MORE URBAN THAN THE REST OF
THE STATE. IT SORT OF A BAJA
SUBURB
AREA. IF BUTTIGIEG'S PERFORMING
WELL IN URBAN AREAS THAT'S A
GOOD SIGN FOR HIM . HE IS
OBVIOUSLY APPEALING MORE TO THE
MODERATE WING OF THE PARTY. WE
WOULD EXPECT. WE HEARD BERNIE
SANDERS WON LAST TIME. IT'S
INTERESTING THIS AREA SEEMS TO
HAVE MODERATED MY AT LEAST FOR
THIS CAUCUS. WHICH SUGGESTS WHAT
WE DON'T KNOW YET FOR THIS
PRECINCT IT'S A DATA POINT THAT
SUGGESTS PERHAPS THE URBAN AREAS
ARE MOVING MORE TOWARDS
MODERATES. MAYBE, I GUESS WE
WILL SEE.
>> YOU ARE AN ASSOCIATE
PROFESSOR AT IOWA STATE
UNIVERSITY. WE SAW THE PRECINCT
THAT DRANK THAT HANNA JEWELL IS
THAT HAD A LOT OF YOUNG COLLEGE
STUDENTS. WHOEVER WAS IN THE
AREA CAN GO
TO CAUCUS. WHAT IS IT LIKE TO
HAVE YOUR STUDENTS INVOLVED IN
THIS PROCESS AND HAVE THEM
PARTICIPATE IN LEARNING CLASS
BUT ALSO BE A CAUCUS GOER?
>> A LOT OF THEM LIKE IT.
THERE'S A SURPRISING AMOUNT OF
DISINTEREST IN WELL MOST PEOPLE
AREN'T
POLITICS JUNKIES. IN THE
POLITICAL SCIENCE DEPARTMENT WE
HAVE MORE THAN OUR FAIR SHARE
WHO ARE INTERESTED IN THERE ARE
CAMPUS SEEING MISFORTUNE OF
LIVING IN AN AREA THAT HAS A LOT
OF
UNDECIDED VOTERS. THERE'S A
TREMENDOUS AMOUNT OF CANVASSING.
EVERY WEEKEND WE ARE BOMBARDED
AT OUR HOUSE AND ON OUR PHONES
AND A LOT OF IT IS DONE BY
COLLEGE STUDENTS. IT'S A
TESTAMENT TO THEIR ENERGY.
>> EUGENE, WHAT IS IT TO YOU AS
WE SAW THEM GET A LAY OF THE
LAND?
>> IT'S VERY INTERESTING TO SEE
AT JOYCE SITE IN COUNCIL BLUFFS
THAT THINGS WRAPPED UP. I THINK
WHEN YOU MAY HAVE SOME
MORE OLDER VOTERS NOT
NECESSARILY THE OLDEST BUT NOT
COLLEGE STUDENTS. THEY CAME AND
HAD THEIR IDEAS. SOME PEOPLE WON
AND SOME DID NOT. THEY WERE MORE
PERSUADABLE TO
MAKE DECISIONS. THEY ARE GOING
HOME AND PROBABLY GOING TO EAT
DINNER, CARE FOR THEIR KIDS AND
GET READY FOR WORK. WHERE AS THE
COLLEGE STUDENTS, WE SAW HOW
HARD HE TRIED TO PERSUADE THAT
GUY AND HE WAS NOT
HAVING IT. THERE IS SOME SUPPORT
TO IT, IT SEEMS. NOT THAT THE
CONVICTIONS WERE NOT REAL OR
DEEP BUT IT WOULD TAKE A LOT
MORE TO CONVINCE PEOPLE THAT
THEIR FIRST CHOICE WAS NOT THE
DIRECTION THEY WANTED TO GO. IT
MAY BE THE STEREOTYPE THAT
YOUNGER PEOPLE ARE
MORE IDEALISTS AND HAVE
CONVICTIONS THAT THEY ARE LESS
WILLING TO WAIVER ON. IT SEEMED
TO BE THE CASE IN THAT EXAMPLE.
>> JAMES, IF THE GROUP YOU
CAUCUS WITH REACHES THE
THRESHOLD YOU ARE LOCKED IN. IF
YOU
ARE UNDECIDED AND IF YOU ARE
WAFFLING, YOU CANNOT TAKE THE
TEMPERATURE OF THE ROOM IN ROUND
ONE AND THEN SAY OH YOU CALLED
MY BLUFF. I DID NOT REALIZE
WARREN WOULD NOT BE VIABLE. I
SEE THAT SHE IS IN TROUBLE AND
I'M SHIFTING. YOU ARE LOCKET IT
IN. IF YOU'RE AT 15%. EVEN IF
YOUR WHEN THE A GROUP THAT'S NOT
VIABLE CAN YOU MOVE AROUND AND
CHOOSE ANOTHER PLACE TO GO.
>> THAT IS GOING TO LIMIT HOW
MUCH OF WHAT WE SEE AT DRAKE.
LAST TIME, MARTIN O MALLEY WAS
TECHNICALLY IN THE RACE IN 2016
BUT IT WAS A TWO-WAY RACE. YOU
DIDN'T HAVE THAT MUCH
HORSETRADING BECAUSE THERE
WEREN'T THAT MANY HORSES TO
TRADE. IN 2008
JOHN EDWARDS, IT WAS VERY
SURPRISING THAT HE FINISHED
SECOND AND HILLARY CLINTON
FINISHED THIRD. IT WAS PARTLY
BECAUSE OF HIS STRENGTH IN THESE
ROOMS, WHERE HIS PEOPLE WERE
ORGANIZED. THERE SHOULD BE
LESS FLUIDITY. THERE CLEARLY IS
GOING TO BE SOME. I THINK THERE
WAS CONCERN AMONG THE CAUCUS
PURIST THAT THE RULE YOU JUST
EXPLAIN WOULD MEAN PEOPLE WERE
LOCKED INTO ANDREW YANG AT 15%
AND WERE NOT ABLE TO GO DECIDE
BETWEEN THE TWO MOST CREDIBLE
CANDIDATES.
>> IT'S LIKE A STATEMENT VOTE.
I'M DECLARING A STATEMENT FOR
THIS CANDIDATE EVEN THOUGH I'M
ULTIMATELY GOING TO SUPPORT
SOMEONE ELSE. THIS YEAR THAT'S
DANGEROUS AND IT'S DANGEROUS TO
SAY YOU AREN'T DECIDED. THAT CAN
ITSELF BE A 15% BLOCKAGE.
>> BECAUSE THEN YOUR VOTE IS
ESSENTIALLY WASTED. IF YOU'RE
GOING IN AND SAYING I'M AND
DECIDED IN 20% SAY THEY ARE
UNDECIDED YOU ARE OUT. THERE ARE
AND IT WILL BE INTERESTING
BECAUSE THERE ARE AREAS WHERE
CANDIDATES HAVE BEEN ON THE
VERGE OF BEING AT THAT
THRESHOLD. SOMEONE LIKE AMY
KLOBUCHAR, STATEWIDE MAYBE UNDER
THE THRESHOLD BUT IN CERTAIN
AREAS OF THE STATE WILL BE RIGHT
AT THE THRESHOLD. SO, HOW THAT
PLAYS OUT WILL BE FASCINATING TO
WATCH. THAT'S THE DIFFERENCE
BETWEEN THE FIRST ROUND NUMBER
IN THE SECOND ROW NUMBER.
>> PEOPLE ACROSS THE STATE ARE
STILL GATHERING TO DISCUSS THEIR
PICKS AND POTENTIALLY REALIGNED
TO CHOOSE THE SECOND CANDIDATE.
WE EXPECT RESULTS TO COME IN
SHORTLY. LET'S GO BACK TO OUR
ELECTION AND 16 AND THE DIRECTOR
OF ENGINEERING JEREMY BOWERS. WE
JUST HEARD FROM JAMES BUT TELL
US HOW TODAY'S FIELD COMPARES TO
2016?
>> Reporter: IN 2016 IT WAS A
SIMPLE SET UP AND IT WAS A
MATHEMATICIAN STREAM. IF THIS IS
WHAT YOU WANTED WE HAD TWO
CANDIDATES. ONE REPRESENTED THE
REAL ESTABLISHMENT RING OF THE
PARTY AND ONE THAT REPRESENTED
THE SORT OF PROGRESSIVE WING
MARTIN O MALLEY SORRY ABOUT
THAT. WE WEREN'T REALLY TAKING A
LOT OF VOTES AWAY FROM HILLARY
CLINTON AND BERNIE SANDERS IN
2016. THAT MADE IT REALLY EASY
FOR FOLKS WHO WERE LOOKING TO
SEE HOW THINGS WOULD SHAKE OUT
BECAUSE THEY CAN LOOK AT THE TWO
LANES OF CANDIDATES AND
UNDERSTAND A LOT. THIS YEAR WE
HAVE SEVEN CANDIDATES IN THE
DEBATES PLUS THIS BILLIONAIRE
WHO MAYBE ISN'T QUALIFYING IN
THE EARLY STATES BUT WHOSE
POLLING EXCEEDINGLY WELL. WHAT
WE REALLY SEE IS THIS CROWDED
FIELD. THAT FIELD MAKES IT
DIFFICULT FOR FOLKS TRYING ANY
KIND OF FORECASTING OR A LITTLE
A
LOOK AHEAD. THING THAT I WANTED
TO TALK ABOUT AS WELL AS THAT
NUMBER OF UNDECIDED VOTERS.
THAT'S THE THING THAT MAKES OUR
JOB DIFFICULT. A LOT OF ISLANDS
WERE EXPLAINED TO US EITHER AT
THE ENTRANCE PULL RESULTS OF THE
REPORTERS IN THE FIELD THAT THEY
HAD NOT MADE UP THEIR MIND JET.
DELETE POLLING SHOWED IT UPWARDS
OF
MORE THAN TWO THIRDS OF FOLKS
HADN'T DECIDED AND THAT'S A
CRAZY HIGH NUMBER FOR US THIS
LATE IN THE PROCESS. WE WOULD
EXPECT MANY MORE FOLKS HAVE AN
IDEA OF WHO THEY LIKE TO VOTE
FOR WHEN THEY SHOW TO THE CAUCUS
SITE. ALL OF THAT LENDS TO EXTRA
UNPREDICTABILITY TO WHAT'S A
FAIRLY UNPREDICTABLE PROCESS
WHEN YOU THROW IN THINGS LIKE
VIABILITY STANDARDS, THAT MAKES
ALL OF US HERE AT THE ELECTION
INSIDE CENTER JUST A LITTLE BIT
NERVOUS. I WILL ADD IN THAT WE
ARE STILL WAITING FOR THE FIRST
NUMBERS TO COME IN. UNTIL WE GET
THOSE, I'D LIKE TO TALK TO
SOMEONE HERE AT THE TABLE A
LITTLE BIT ABOUT WHAT HE'S
LOOKING AT. LENNY WE HAVEN'T
SEEN THE FIRST NUMBERS AT BUT
ONE DAY WE WILL. WHAT IS IT YOU
ARE LOOKING AT UNTIL WE GET
THEM?
>> UNTIL WE GET THEM A LOOKING
AT WAITING. WE'VE SEEN RUMBLINGS
OF VERY EARLY NUMBERS BUT WE
CANNOT CONFIRM THEM. ONCE THOSE
NUMBERS COME IN I WILL LOOK TO
SEE HOW THEY COMPARE TO THE
2016 RESULTS. THE IDEA IS TO
MAKE AN INFERENCE OF WHAT THAT
MEANS FOR WHERE
HILLARY CLINTON AND BERNIE
SANDERS VOTERS ARE GOING THIS
TIME AND USING THAT WE CAN
EXTRAPOLATE INTO THE FUTURE FOR
THE OTHER PRECINCTS THAT ARE NOT
REPORTED.
>> Reporter: THAT'S WHAT WE WILL
LOOK AT HERE AT THE ELECTION
INSIDE CENTER. UNTIL THEN BACK
TO YOU.
>> THANK YOU. WE ARE GIGGING OUT
EUGENE BUT TO GREAT RESULTS
BECAUSE WE CAN UNDERSTAND MORE.
WHEN YOU ATTENDED RALLIES AND
EVENTS THIS WEEK AS YOU'VE BEEN
REPORTING, TWO IT'S THE
SENT THE PEOPLE WERE SHOPPING OR
WOULD THEY SUPPORT SOME OF THAT
THEY ALREADY LIKE?
IF THEY WERE AT A WARREN RALLY
WHERE THEY COMMITTED?
>> I SPOKE TO QUITE A FEW VOTERS
WHO WERE COMMITTED. VERY FEW
PEOPLE WERE STILL SHOPPING. MOST
PEOPLE I SPOKE TO HAD NARROWED
IT DOWN.
>> TWO OR THREE SEEMS LIKE SO
MANY.
>> ABSOLUTELY AND WE ARE TRYING
TO
FIGURE OUT IF THE CANDIDATE THEY
WERE LISTENING TO AT THAT TIME
WAS GOING TO SAY SOMETHING TO
PUT THEM OVER THE LINE TO BE A
SOLID PERSON TO SAY THAT WAS
GOING TO BE BACKED. IT SEEMS
CLICH BUT THAT'S NOT CLICH FOR
IOWA. MOST PEOPLE KNOW WHAT THEY
WILL DO BY NOW.
>> YEAH,
DID YOU GET A READ ON IF PEOPLE
WERE LISTENING FOR A PARTICULAR
MESSAGE? WAS THERE SOMETHING
LIKE HEALTHCARE OR ELECTABILITY?
>> IT WAS ALWAYS ABOUT CAN YOU
BEAT TRUMP AND HOW WILL YOU BE
TRUMP AND WHAT WILL YOU DO TO
ANSWER TO THIS AND HOW WILL YOU
STOP TRUMP. PEOPLE WERE CONSUMED
MAKING SURE TRUMP DOESN'T WIN.
NOT THAT THEY ARE NOT CONCERNED
ABOUT POLICY. THERE WERE A LOT
OF POLICY QUESTIONS BUT THEY
WANT TO DEFEAT HIM.
>>
EUGENE SCOTT, PROFESSOR HASSID,
JAMES HOMAN. STAY HERE WE WILL
HAVE MORE THROUGH  THE NIGHT WE
ARE WATCHING AS THE RETURNS COME
IN. WE WILL START
LOOKING AT HOW IOWA IS SHAPING
UP WITH A CROWDED FIELD AND A
LOT ON THE LINE . THE FIRST IN
THE NATION TO WEIGH IN ON JUST
TO MIGHT BECOME THE NEXT
PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES.
STAY WITH " THE WASHINGTON POST
" ALL NIGHT LONG. I AM LIBBY
CASEY STAY RIGHT HERE.
>>> IT'S 10:00 ON THE EAST COAST
9:00 HERE IN DES MOINES. THANK
YOU FOR
JOINING US WE'RE COMING TO YOU
LIVE FROM THE DES MOINES IOWA
EVENTS CENTER WERE THOUSANDS OF
JOURNALISTS ARE GATHERED TO
COVER THE NIGHTS FIRST IN THE
NATION CAUCUS. WE ARE GLAD TO
HAVE YOU WITH US AS RESULTS
EMERGE IN A REMINDER TO
SUBSCRIBE TO " THE WASHINGTON
POST " . WE WILL GIVE YOU THE
LATEST UPDATES AND GIVE YOU NEWS
THAT BREAKS THROUGHOUT THE WHOLE
2020 SEASON. I WOULD LIKE TO
WELCOME MY GUESS MY COLLEAGUE
JAMES HOMAN AND EUGENE SCOTT AND
JONATHAN HIS SEED ASSOCIATE
PROFESSOR AT IOWA STATE. THANK
YOU FOR BEING HERE. EUGENE,
AS WE DO THIS RESET WE ARE
WAITING FOR THE RESULTS AND WE
WILL GET IT ALL IN ONE BATCH.
PRECINCT BY PRECINCT BUT THE
FIRST-ROUND IN THE SECOND ROUND
OF HOW CAUCUSGOERS  WEIGHED IN
WE WON'T GET IT TRICKLING OUT IN
TERMS OF HOW THEY ALIGNED FIRST
AND THEN HOW THEY
ALIGN SECOND. WE WILL FIND OUT
HOW EACH AREA WENT IN THE
ULTIMATE TALLIES AND WE WILL
HAVE OUR TEAM IN WASHINGTON
BREAK DOWN THE NUMBERS AND
EXPLAIN WHAT IT MEANS. WHAT ARE
YOU WATCHING IN TERMS OF THE
OVERALL STORY?
>> I REALLY WANT TO SEE HOW
CANDIDATES DO IN AREAS THAT THEY
WERE NOT EXPECTING TO WIN. THAT
WILL GIVE SOME IDEA ABOUT HOW
THEY CAN DO MOVING FORWARD WITH
MAYBE SOME DEMOGRAPHICS THEY
AREN'T PERFORMING REALLY WELL
WITH. OUT OF THE NARRATIVE,
BUTTIGIEG AND AMY KLOBUCHAR THIS
WEEK IN PARTICULAR  HAVE BEEN
ABOUT HOW MUCH THEY STRUGGLE IS
BLACK VOTERS AND LATINO VOTERS
IN OTHER MY DORNEY VOTERS. WE
NEED TO FIGURE OUT HOW THEY WILL
PERFORM EVEN IN THE STATE WITH
SOME OF THOSE DEMOGRAPHICS,
WHICH IS MORE A STATE THAT'S
MORE DIVERSE THAN PEOPLE
REALIZE. TO GET SOME TYPE OF
SENSE THAT THEY WILL BE VIABLE
WITH DEMOGRAPHICS THAT ARE
NEEDED TO SECURE
THE NOMINATION.
>> WE HEARD HANNAH JEWELL AT
DRAKE UNIVERSITY IN D MOWING
TALKING TO CAUCUS GOERS. IT WAS
SO MUCH GOING ON, SO MUCH
JOCKEYING AND TRYING TO CONVINCE
OTHER PEOPLE. IT SHOWS THE GLORY
OF THE DEMOCRATIC PROCESS AND
THE MESSINESS PICK
>> ABSOLUTELY. ONE THING THAT
WAS INTERESTING. THIS IS MY
FIRST TIME COVERING THE
CAUCUSES.  WE LOOK AT ONE IN
COUNCIL BLUFFS WHICH YOU SAID WE
WOULD GET ALL THE INFORMATION AT
THE SAME TIME BUT THAT ONE WAS
OVER AND THE ONE ON CAMPUS WAS
STILL GOING ON.
>> WE WILL GET THE PRECINCTS WE
JUST WON'T GET THE FIRST
ALIGNMENT SEPARATELY FROM THE
SECOND ALIGNMENT THROUGHOUT THE
NIGHT.
>> IT WAS INTERESTING. I KNOW
YOU ALL ARE MORE FAMILIAR WITH
THESE AND I WANTED TO KNOW HOW
NORMAL A REPRESENTATIVE WITH
THAT DRAKE EXPERIENCE OF WHAT
HAPPENS. WE KNOW NOT EVERY
CAUCUS IS AT A UNIVERSITY AND
WITH STUDENTS.
>> BUT LET'S GO BACK TO HANNAH.
I THINK SHE'S STANDING BY AT
DRAKE UNIVERSITY WITH MORE .
>> Reporter: HELLO. THEY ARE
ANNOUNCING THE DELEGATES RIGHT
NOW. THEY JUST ANNOUNCED THAT
BOOKER NO LONGER IN THE RACE GOT
ONE DELEGATE. I THINK THE TREND
12 CREW GOT TWO AND I'M HERE
WITH SOME WARREN SUPPORTERS. HOW
DO YOU FEEL?
>> I'M EXCITED IT'S GOOD NEWS.
>> Reporter: I THINK THE
REACTION WAS LOWER THAN BEFORE.
>> WE DON'T HAVE THE MOST
DELEGATES, THAT'S NOT GREAT BUT
WE CAN
GET THERE.
>> I FELT WE WERE ALL CHATTING
AND WAITING FOR THE RESULTS AND
THEN THE HEART RATES WERE STILL
POUNDING. WE CAN REST NOW.
THAT'S THE MOST EXERCISE I'VE
EVER HAD, RUNNING AROUND. HOW DO
YOU FEEL?
>> I'M CONFIDENT IN WARREN. IT
WAS INTERESTING HAVING A LOT OF
VOTERS MAKE THEIR OWN CATEGORY.
I RESPECT EVERYONE'S RIGHT TO
DECIDE WHO THEY WANT TO CAUCUS
FOR AND AS AMERICANS WE ARE FREE
TO DO SO BUT I'M HAPPY WITH THE
RESULTS.
>> Reporter: SATISFIED. YOU
SEEMED BUSY DURING THE
REALIGNMENT, HOW DID THAT GO?
>> THE REALIGNMENT WAS
INTERESTING. THE WARREN TEAM GOT
TWO UNCOMMITTED ON THE OTHER
WENT TO
BUTTIGIEG.  I KNOW THESE PEOPLE
I'M A STUDENT AND THESE ARE MY
COLLEAGUES AND IT WAS REALLY
INTERESTING TO CONVINCE MY
FRIENDS OF SOMETHING LIKE I AM
WITH WARREN. THEY KNOW IT. IT
WAS INTERESTING TO MAKE THE LAST
MINUTE PUSH. I'M SUPER HAPPY.
>> Reporter: WE
ARE SATISFIED. I HEARD
YOU EARLIER. THAT WAS SUPPOSED
TO HAPPEN BEFORE THE FINAL
COUNT. PEOPLE SEEM HAPPY. I'M
CURIOUS HOW HOW YOU FEEL ABOUT
THE BIGGER MOVEMENT. THEY
DECIDED RATHER THAN COME AND
LEND THEIR SUPPORT TO SANDERS
OVER BUTTIGIEG,  ARE THERE ANY
STRONG FEELINGS?
>> I KNOW PERSONALLY A LOT OF
PEOPLE WHO WORKED HARD FOR THE
CORY BOOKER CAMPAIGN. I RESPECT
THEIR PASSION FOR THIS
CANDIDATE. WE ARE ALL HERE TO
SUPPORT WHO WE WANT TO SUPPORT.
I RESPECT THEM STANDING THERE
GROUND AND THEY HAVE THE RIGHT
TO DO THAT. AT THE SAME TIME,
I'M SUPER HAPPY THAT WE WERE
ABLE TO GET THIS LARGE GROUP FOR
WARREN. I THINK IT WORKED OUT.
>> Reporter: TELL ME WHY
EVERYONE IS SITTING DOWN?
>> I HAVE NO IDEA.
>> Reporter: ARE THEY TIRED
LEGS?
>> I THINK THEY ARE SELECTING
DELEGATES.
>> Reporter: WOULD YOU LIKE TO
BE A DELEGATE?
>> I HAVE NO CLUE.
>> Reporter: WHAT ABOUT PRECINCT
CAPTAIN? HOW DO YOU FEEL ABOUT
THE BOOKER THING?
>> IT'S NOT VERY REALISTIC AS
HE'S OUT OF THE CAMPAIGN. HE'S
OUT OF
THE RACE. I THINK THAT'S HOW IT
WORKS. THEY DIDN'T GO AGAINST
THE RULES BUT THEY WENT THEIR
OWN WAY.
>> Reporter: WHAT WILL IT BE
LIKE IN CLASS TOMORROW?
>> I THINK MOST OF OUR SCHOOL
AIR WARREN SUPPORTERS. I THINK
IT WILL BE EXPECTED. I THINK IT
WILL BE A NORMAL DAY. THERE WILL
BE
LESS COMMOTION. A LOT LESS
POLITICS. THAT HAS BEEN MY
ENTIRE DRAKE EXPERIENCE. I'M A
FIRST-YEAR STUDENT AND NOW THAT
IT'S OVER I DON'T KNOW WHAT I
WILL DO.
>> Reporter: WHAT WILL YOU DO?
>> MAYBE I WILL TRANSFER.
>> Reporter: WE WILL COME BACK
TO YOU LIBBY. THINGS ARE CALM
AND EVERYTHING IS FINE.
>> GREAT. THANK YOU HANNAH
JEWELL. EUGENE, HOW INCREDIBLE
TO HAVE YOUR COLLEGE TIME
INVOLVED WITH THIS CAUCUS. WHAT
ARE YOUR TAKEAWAYS?
>> IT'S INTERESTING TO SEE WHAT
SOME STUDENTS WERE LISTENING AS
THEIR OPTIONS. I THINK WHAT I
WOULD ASSUME WHEN WE ARE TALKING
OUT ABOUT PEOPLE ONLY HAVING ONE
OPPORTUNITY TO VOTE AFTER THEIR
FIRST CHOICE
WASN'T SELECTED. THEY'VE CHOSEN
SOMEONE WHO IS DEFINITELY IN THE
SAME WING OF THE DEMOCRATIC
PARTY. TO SEE SOMEONE GO FROM
WHAT BUTTIGIEG TO WARN I THINK
THEY SAID ? IT WAS MODERATE
PROGRESSIVE. I WOULD
NOT HAVE. I WONDER HOW IT IS
WORKING OUT AND OTHER PARTS OF
THE STATE OR IF IT'S JUST THE
CAMPUS. IT'S DIFFICULT TO MAKE
THE EXTRAPOLATION FROM ONE
CAMPUS ON ESTATE.
>> YOUR BRINGING UP A GREAT
QUESTION OF THE ENERGY ON THE
ENTHUSIASM. PROFESSOR AND JAMES
WHO HAS BEEN THROUGH THIS CAUCUS
GOING. DO YOU SEE THE SAME
ENERGY LIKE A SENIOR CENTER OR
SOMEPLACE THAT'S OUTSIDE A
COLLEGE CAMPUS SETTING?
>> I'VE ONLY CAUCUSED ON A
COLLEGE CAMPUS SETTING. I DON'T
KNOW WHAT THEY ARE DOING AT THE
SENIOR CENTER.
>> THE BAR HAS BEEN SET.
>>
LAST TIME, O'MALLEY WASN'T
REALLY IN IT IT WAS BETWEEN
SANDERS AND CLINTON. THERE WAS A
LOT LESS CONVINCING BUT THE
NUMBERS WERE DONE AND EVERYONE
MOVED ON. THIS DYNAMIC WITH ALL
OF THESE CANDIDATES IS
DEFINITELY DIFFERENT THAN WHAT
I'VE SEEN IN THE PAST.
>> GET REALLY IS ABOUT
PERSONALITY, THE FORCE OF
PERSONALITY. THESE ARE NOT PAID
STAFFERS, THESE PRECINCT
LEADERS, SOMETIMES IT'S A
NATIONAL SURROGATE. I MEMBER IN
2008 ANTONIO VIA RUGOSA WAS THE
MAYOR OF LOS ANGELES AND TRIED
TO MAKE THE CASE OVER CLINTON.
EVERYBODY WENT TO OBAMA AND
HE DISAPPEARED. HE DIDN'T WANT
TO BE THERE WHEN IT WAS NOT
GOING FOR HIS CANDIDATE. IN A
LOT OF THESE PLACES IT'S LOCAL
CIVIC LEADERS WHO ARE RESPECTED
AND ITS FORCES OF PERSONALITY.
THE ARGUMENTS THEY MAKE AREN'T
THE TALKING POINTS FROM THE
CAMPAIGN. THEY SAY FROM THEIR
HEART WHY THEY THOUGHT THEIR
CANDIDATE WAS BEST. THAT'S KIND
OF COOL. YOU SAW WITH HANNAH'S
VIDEO, THE PERSONALITIES. THESE
ARE KIDS WHO ARE GOING TO BE
FUTURE LEADERS. THEY WILL BE
STACKING UP AND TAKING UPON
THEMSELVES TO CONVINCE SOMEONE
TO CHANGE WHO THEY ARE
SUPPORTING. I THINK IT REALLY IS
DEPENDENT ON WHO THE INDIVIDUAL
PERSONALITIES ARE. I'M SURE
YOU'D SEE SIMILAR THINGS PLAY
OUT AT A SENIOR CENTER OR IN A
RURAL AREA WHERE YOU HAD SOMEONE
WITH A
STRONG WILL.
>> LET'S TALK ABOUT POLLING
AGAIN ON THE ISSUES THAT SEEM TO
MATTER TO DEMOCRATIC VOTERS IN
IOWA. DAVID BYLER IS IN D.C..
DAVID, WHAT HAVE WE LEARNED FROM
PULLING SO FAR?
>> Reporter: THANKS, LIBBY WE'VE
LEARNED A LOT FROM THE ENTRANCE
POLLS SO FAR. IT'S AN
INTERESTING SET OF DATA. WITH US
TO TALK THROUGH IT IS EMILY
GUSKIN WHO IS HALF OF THE "
WASHINGTON POST "  IN-HOUSE
POLLING TEAM. BEFORE WE GET INTO
ISSUES I THINK IT WOULD BE GOOD
TO TALK ABOUT WHY IT'S AN
INTEREST POLL AND NOT AN EXIT
POLL. WHAT DOES THAT MEAN AND
WHAT DOES THE AUDIENCE NEED TO
KNOW?
>> WE ARE USED TO HEARING ABOUT
THE EXIT POLLS IN ELECTION AND
PRIMARY BUT SINCE IOWA IS A
CAUCUS NOT A PRIMARY , PEOPLE GO
IN WITH AN IDEA OF WHOM THEY
WILL VOTE FOR. THERE ARE PEOPLE
FROM EDISON MEDIA RESEARCH WHO
RUN THE NETWORK ENTRANCE AND
EXIT POLLS. THEY STAND WITH
THE SURVEY, A PAPER SURVEY AND
ASK PEOPLE AS THEY COME INTO THE
CAUCUS WHO THEIR INITIAL
PREFERENCE THAT THEY INTEND TO
CAUCUS FOR. NOW OF COURSE WE
KNOW THAT CAN CHANGE, BECAUSE OF
A CANDIDATE DOESN'T MEET THE
THRESHOLD, THE PERSON WHO IS
CAUCUSING WILL HAVE TO SWITCH TO
A DIFFERENT CANDIDATE. WE'VE GOT
AN IDEA OF WHO PEOPLE ARE
LOOKING FOR AS THEIR INITIAL
PREFERENCE WHEN THEY COME IN
BECAUSE IT'S AN INTEREST POLL
NOT AN
EXIT POLL.
>> THIS IS SUCH A WILD
COMPLICATED PROCESS WITH ALL THE
REALIGNMENTS AND EVERYTHING.
>> Reporter: ONE THING THAT
WOULD BE INTERESTING TO KNOW IS
HOW THE VOTERS THEMSELVES, THE
CAUCUSGOERS I THINK ABOUT THIS
PROCESS.  DID THEY DECIDE JUST
LAST WEEK, ARE THEY THINKING AND
ELECTABLE CANDIDATE OR SOMEONE
WHO'S WITH ME ON
THE ISSUES? IS THERE INFORMATION
ABOUT HOW THESE PEOPLE ARE
THINKING THROUGH THIS BANANAS
PROCESS?
>> WE KNOW FROM THE ENTRANCE
POLL THEY ASK QUESTIONS
INCLUDING WHEN DID YOU MAKE YOUR
DECISION ON WHO TO CAUCUS FOR.
AMONG PEOPLE WHO DECIDED IN THE
LAST FEW DAYS OR EVEN ON THAT
DAY,  CAUCUSGOERS WERE MORE
LIKELY TO CHOOSE  I'M SORRY, I'M
LOOKING AT THE
WRONG THING. THE PEOPLE WHO
CHOSE THAT DAY -- I DON'T HAVE
IT.
>> IT'S ALL RIGHT. THERE IS
OTHER STUFF.
>> YOUR SECOND QUESTION, THOSE
WHO AGREE WITH YOU ON THE MAJOR
ISSUES VERSUS THE CANDIDATE WHO
YOU THINK WILL BE MOST LIKELY TO
BEAT TRUMP. THERE'S A BINARY
CHOICE ON WHO YOU ARE VOTING
FOR. AMONG THE 62% OF CAUCUS
GOERS WHO SAID THEY WANTED
SOMEONE WHO IS MORE LIKELY TO BE
DONALD TRUMP THE GENERAL
ELECTION. FACE SPLIT ABOUT A
QUARTER EACH WENT TO BIDEN AND
BUTTIGIEG WHILE SLIGHTLY FEWER
MY 15% WENT FOR WARREN AND
CLOVER SHARK. THAT'S DIFFERENT
FROM THE VOTE OF THE PEOPLE WHO
WANTED A CANDIDATE WHO'S CLOSER
TO THEM ON THE ISSUES WHICH WAS
36% OF IOWA CAUCUSGOERS  AND
THEY WILL LARGELY OR A
PLURALITY, 36% SAID THEY WERE
GOING TO BE CAUCUSING FOR
SANDERS.
>> THAT IS SUPER INTERESTING.
ONE SHORT, LAST QUESTION. THE
LAST TIME WE TALKED ABOUT THE
DEMOGRAPHICS AND WHAT
BREAKS OUT. ARE THERE ANY OTHER
DEMOGRAPHIC CATEGORIES THAT ARE
INTERESTING OR POPPING OUT TO
YOU?
>> I THINK THE FIRST TIME
CAUCUSGOERS IS INTERESTING
VERSUS THOSE WHO'VE ATTENDED
BEFORE. THE FIRST TIMERS IT'S
37% IN PRELIMINARY ENTRANCE
POLLS THAT SAID THEY WERE FIRST
TIME CAUCUSGOERS . THEY SPLIT
THEIR VOTE PRETTY MUCH BETWEEN
SANDERS AND BUTTIGIEG , BUT HALF
OF THAT WENT FOR WARREN AND
THOSE WHO ATTEND PREVIOUSLY ARE
ALL OVER THE PLACE WITH
DIFFERENT CHOICES.
>> THAT'S GREAT INFORMATION
THANK YOU FOR ALL OF THAT. VERY
INTERESTING THINGS TO PROCESS.
WE WILL HAVE MORE UPDATES ON
THIS DATA AND EVERYTHING ELSE IS
A COMES IN. THANK YOU. BACK TO
YOU, LIBBY.
>> THANK YOU. LET'S GO TO JOYCE
KOH WHO'S BEEN IN COUNCIL
BLUFFS.
HELLO.
>> Reporter: THANKS HAVE COME TO
AN END AT ABE LINCOLN HIGH
SCHOOL IN COUNCIL BLUFFS. WE
HAVE ONE GRACIOUS STRAGGLER WHO
IS A FORMER REPUBLICAN AND
SWITCHED PARTIES AND IS NOW
CAUCUSING FOR THE FIRST TIME.
JASON PRYOR THANK YOU FOR BEING
HERE. TELL ME WHY YOU DECIDED TO
SWITCH PARTIES AND PARTICIPATE
TONIGHT?
>> I
SWITCHED PARTIES BECAUSE OF
CLIMATE CHANGE AND JUST THE WAY
OUR ADMINISTRATION IS ACTING.
THE VOTE LAST FRIDAY WAS KIND OF
A GOT THAT NOBODY CARES WHAT'S
GOING ON WITH HIS ADMINISTRATION
AND THEY CAN DO WHATEVER THEY
WANT TO. I DON'T KNOW, THEY BURN
A LOT OF FOSSIL FUELS. I DON'T
THINK THEY WANT TO KEEP THIS
COUNTRY GOING, STRONG.
>> Reporter: TONIGHT, IT'S
LOOKING LIKE YOU CAUCUSED FOR
AMY KLOBUCHAR. SHE DID NOT GET
AS MANY VOTES AS YOU WOULD LIKE.
WILL YOU CONTINUE TO SUPPORT
HER?
>> I WILL SUPPORT AMY AS FAR AS
WE CAN GO WITH IT. AND THAT'S TO
THE PRESIDENCY IN THE WHITE
HOUSE. I WANT TO HELP HER AS
MUCH AS I CAN. AS MUCH AS I CAN.
>> Reporter: THIS IS YOUR FIRST
TIME CAUCUSING. WHAT MOTIVATED
YOU TO COME OUT AND DO THIS
TONIGHT?
>> TO SEE WHAT'S GOING ON WITH
OUR COUNTRY AND TO KNOW THAT I
NEED TO DO SOMETHING TO HELP
OUT, TO VOICE MY OPINION, TO
MAKE A DIFFERENCE FOR THE PEOPLE
THAT CAN'T OR THAT WON'T. I NEED
TO
HELP OUT. I WANT TO SEE
SOMETHING CHANGE IN
THIS ADMINISTRATION. THIS IS NOT
THE WAY IT IS. I THINK WE NEED A
GOOD DEMOCRAT AND THERE, THAT
CAN CHANGE THIS COUNTRY AROUND.
THE MEANNESS, IT'S NOT US.
>> Reporter: PART OF YOUR STORY
JASON, YOU ARE NOT FROM COUNCIL
BLUFFS YOU ARE FROM PACIFIC JUNK
10 THAT FLOODED OUT LAST YEAR.
IT SOUNDS LIKE YOUR HOUSE WAS
GUTTED. HOW MUCH DOES CLIMATE
CHANGE PLAY A PART IN WHY YOU
ARE VOTING?
>> CLIMATE CHANGE IS A LOT OF
THE WAY I'M VOTING. I DON'T
BELIEVE OUR CURRENT
ADMINISTRATION BELIEVES IN IT. I
THINK IT IS TRUTH. IF ALL THE
SCIENTISTS AROUND THE WORLD SAY
SOMETHING IS CHANGING IN OUR
ADMINISTRATION DOESN'T BELIEVE
THE SCIENTISTS, I CANNOT BELIEVE
THAT. BILL NYE THAT WE ALL GREW
UP WITH. I DON'T THINK HE WOULD
STEER US WRONG.
>> Reporter: NO HE WOULD NOT.
THANK YOU SO MUCH JASON. I HOPE
YOU HAVE A GOOD NIGHT. THANK YOU
FOR
STICKING AROUND. ONE THING I
WANTED TO MENTION IS THE FINAL
RESULTS FROM THIS CAUCUS
LOCATION. WE WERE IN ONE
LOCATION THROUGHOUT THE ENTIRE
NIGHT BUT THEY WERE TWO OTHER
PRECINCTS CAUCUSES IN THIS
BUILDING. I WILL RUN THROUGH THE
44 DELEGATES THAT WERE UP FOR
GRABS IN THIS BUILDING ALONE.
EACH OF THESE, EACH BUTTIGIEG,
SANDERS AND WARREN ALL GOT 10
DELEGATES, NINE WENT TO BIDEN,
FOUR TO KLOBUCHAR IN ONE TO
ANDREW YANG. OUT OF THE 44
DELEGATES, IT LOOKS LIKE
BUTTIGIEG, SANDERS AND WARREN
IT HAD A THREE-WAY TIE FROM
COUNCIL BLUFFS OUT HERE IN
SOUTHWEST IOWA. BACK TO YOU.
>> THANK YOU SO MUCH JOYCE.
LET'S REINTRODUCE OUR GUEST.
JAMES TELL ME WHAT " THE
WASHINGTON POST " , PETER HANSEN
FROM GRINNELL COLLEGE AND THANK
YOU FOR JOINING US. YOU JUST GOT
BACK FROM A CAUCUS?
>> THAT'S RIGHT I HAD A CAUCUS
IN WEST DES MOINES AND I HAD A
CHANCE TO SEE BOTH FIRST
REFERENCE IN THE REALIGNMENT.
>> DIFFERENT THIS YEAR BECAUSE
IN THE FIRST REALIGNMENT IF
YOU'RE IN A 15% GROUP YOU CANNOT
MOVE YOU'VE GOT TO STAY.
>> THAT'S RIGHT.
>> WHAT WERE THE FIRST ROUND
RESULTS? BUT THE FIRST ROUND HAD
BUTTIGIEG IN THE LEAD FOLLOWED
CLOSELY BY BERNIE SANDERS  BOTH
WERE WELL INTO THE TERRITORY OF
VIABILITY. AND THEN SQUEAKING
INTO VIABILITY WERE JOE BIDEN
AND
AMY KLOBUCHAR. ELIZABETH WARREN
WAS 2 VOTES SHORT OF BEING
VIABLE IN THAT PRECINCT.
>> WHAT HAPPENED IN THE
REALIGNMENT?
>> THE WARN PEOPLE ATTEMPTED FOR
A
FEW MINUTES TO SEE IF THEY COULD
WIN ANYONE OVER AND GET THE TWO
EXTRA VOTERS.
>> THEY COULDN'T PULL ANYBODY
FROM THOSE WHO HAD REACHED 15%
BUT IF IT WAS IN ANDREW YANG
SUPPORTER THEY COULD.
>> THAT'S RIGHT
IN OUR PRECINCT THE NONVIABLE
CANDIDATES WERE ANDREW YANG,
ELIZABETH WARREN,  MICHAEL
BENNET AND TOM
STEYER.  THE QUESTION WAS ONCE
WE WENT INTO THE REALIGNMENT
BEARD COULD ANY OF THOSE
NONVIABLE GROUPS FORM A VIABLE
GROUP AND THE ANSWER WAS NO THE
WARREN PEOPLE TRIED FOR LITTLE
BIT  AND THEN THEY MELTED AWAY
TO THE OTHER GROUPS. MANY WINTER
AMY KLOBUCHAR. MANY WENT TO PETE
TO JUDGE SOME STEW SANDERS BUT
ONTO JOE BIDEN.
>> HOW WERE THE RESULTS SHAPED
BY THAT, THOSE WHO LEFT WARREN
AND LEFT THE OTHER LOW THRESHOLD
GROUPS AND WENT OVER?
>> PETE BUTTIGIEG ENDED UP
WINNING THAT PRECINCT. BERNIE
SANDERS WAS CLOSE BEHIND. AMY
KLOBUCHAR BOOSTED HER NUMBERS
COMING IN THIRD.  THAT WAS
THANKS TO THE SUPPORT OF THE
WARREN PEOPLE.  BIDEN'S NUMBERS
DIDN'T MOVE.
>> WE WONDERED HOW REALIGNMENT
MIGHT HELP WHAT SECOND CHOICE
VOTES MEANT FOR SOME OF THESE
CANDIDATES?
>> IT'S A DIFFERENT BETWEEN
VIABILITY AND NOT FOR SOME
PEOPLE. I KNOW THIS IS JUST ONE
CASE THAT WE KNOW ABOUT SO FAR
BUT AMY KLOBUCHAR, IS
COMPETITIVE IN THIS BASIN AWAY
SHE WILL PERHAPS WOULD NOT HAVE
BEEN IT APPEARS WITHOUT THESE
OPTIONS TO ENCOURAGE PEOPLE TO
COME OVER AND BE THE
SECOND VOTE.
>> IF WARREN HAD NOT HIT THAT
THRESHOLD IT WOULD HAVE MADE A
DIFFERENCE FOR KLOBUCHAR. WHAT
WERE THE EXPECTATIONS FOR WEST
DES MOINES AND WHAT ARE THEY
CURRENTLY? THIS IS JUST ONE
CAUCUS.
>> THE DES MOINES METRO AREA IS
WHERE I
THINK PEOPLE EXPECT PETE
BUTTIGIEG TO DO WELL. IS NOT
THOUGHT OF AS BERNIE SANDERS
TERRITORY.  IF YOU THINK ABOUT
SANDERS YOU THINK UNIVERSITY
TOWNS, IOWA CITY IN PLACES LIKE
GRINNELL AND MY
HOME PRECINCT SANDERS AND WARREN
DOMINATED. THOSE ARE THE PLACES
WHERE YOU THINK OF SANDERS AS
BEING DOMINANT. TO SEE HIM
COMING IN SECOND WAS STRIKING.
>> JAMES, AS YOU HEAR
PROFESSOR HANSEN TALK ABOUT WHAT
HE SAW WHAT STANDS OUT TO YOU?
>> THAT THE WARREN FOLKS WENT TO
KLOBUCHAR. IT'S ONE OF THOSE
THINGS THAT'S FASCINATING THAT I
FOUND IN INTERVIEWS OVER THE
WEEKEND. GOING TO HAVE A DOZEN
PERSONS EVENTS. WARREN IS
COMPETING WITH BERNIE SANDERS
FOR THE LIBERAL VOTE. SHE'S
COMPETING WITH AMY KLOBUCHAR FOR
A LOT OF PEOPLE WHO WANT TO VOTE
FOR WOMEN, AGAIN. SHE IS ALSO
COMPETING WITH BUTTIGIEG
FOR , IN A SEPARATE CONTEST FOR
COLLEGE-EDUCATED KIND OF WHITE
LIBERALS, ESSENTIALLY. IT'S THE
CENTERLEFT. PEOPLE THAT THINK
BERNIE IS TOO EXTREME WOULD
IDENTIFY
AS LIBERAL. SHE HAS THREE
FRIENDS AND IT'S FASCINATING
BECAUSE IT'S THE KIND OF
SUBURBAN AREA WHERE THE PEOPLE
WHO WERE FOR WARREN, LESS THAN
15% ARE SUBURBAN WOMEN. THE
PEOPLE THAT EUGENE WAS SPEAKING
ABOUT WHERE
THEY PROBABLY, THEY CAME OUT
STRONG FOR THE DEMOCRATS IN THE
22 MIDTERMS. DEMOCRATS WERE ABLE
TO PICK UP 20 SEATS THANKS IN
PART TO THEIR STRENGTH IN PLACES
LIKE THAT. I THINK THAT IS
REALLY TELLING AND MAYBE COULD
AUGUR QUITE WELL FOR KLOBUCHAR.
>> HOW MUCH -- WAKE GO AHEAD.
>> I
HAVE ASKED ABOUT A REMINDER THAT
PEOPLE ARE VOTING FOR THE SAME
CANDIDATE FOR DIFFERENT REASONS.
IT'S NOT NEW, IT'S COMMON BUT
LISTENING TO PEOPLE EXPLAIN WHY
THEY ARE BACKING A CANDIDATE
HELPS DESCRIBE OR EXPLAIN, WHO
THEY WERE WILLING TO GO TO FOR
THE SECOND GO AROUND. ONE
GENTLEMAN AT THAT WAS
INTERVIEWED IN COUNCIL BLUFFS
SAID, CLIMATE CHANGE WAS HIS
ISSUE. AMY KLOBUCHAR WAS HIS
PREFERRED CANDIDATE. I
HAD NOT MET MANY AMY KLOBUCHAR
SUPPORTERS WHO HAD THAT AS THEIR
FIRST ISSUE. A LOT OF THE
CLIMATE CHANGE VOTERS WERE GOING
FOR BERNIE SANDERS FIRST. IT'S
INTERESTING TO SEE HOW PEOPLE
FIGURE OUT FOR THEMSELVES WHO
THEY THINK IS THE BEST PERSON TO
WIN THE NOMINATION.
>> HOW DIFFERENT IS THE CAUCUS
THIS YEAR?
>>
IN 2016, THERE WAS A REAL
TENSION BETWEEN THE CLINTON
PEOPLE IN THE SANDERS PEOPLE. I
THINK WHAT WE SEE
THIS YEAR IS MORE UNCERTAINTY,
YOU'VE GOT A GREATER NUMBER OF
CANDIDATES BUT HONESTLY, THE
PRECINCT I WAS IN WAS HIGH
SPIRITS AND FRIENDLY. THAT'S
SOME KIND OF TENSION BETWEEN THE
CANDIDATE CAME OUT AND
FRIENDLY CHANTING BUT NOT THE
KIND OF TENSION THAT I THANK YOU
SAW IMAGE FOUR YEARS AGO.
>> SOME CAMPAIGNS HAVE BEEN
WARNING ABOUT TENSION IN
INTRAPARTY STRIFE.
>> THE SANDERS FOLKS HAVE BEEN
NERVOUS ABOUT THEIR PEOPLE. THE
SANDERS STRATEGISTS PRIVATELY
WORRY ABOUT THE BERNIE BROSE AND
THAT'S WHO YOU ARE TALKING ABOUT
FOUR YEARS AGO WHO GAVE A BAD
NAME TO THE MOVEMENT JUST BY
BEING QUITE RUDE TO EVERYONE
ELSE AND NASTY, HARASSING.
SANDERS I THINK HAS TRIED HARD
TO KEEP THOSE PEOPLE UNDER
CONTROL AND CHANNEL THAT
ENERGY PRODUCTIVELY. IF YOU ARE
GOING TO SUCCEED YOU HAVE TO
BUILD YOUR COALITION. YOU WON'T
BUILD YOUR COALITION IF IT'S
EXCLUSIONARY. I THINK THERE HAS
BEEN AN EFFORT ON THAT FRONT.
EVERYONE ELSE WANTS TO BE THE
GOOD WARRIOR. PETE BUTTIGIEG
WANTS TO BE THE FRIENDLY,
ACCEPTABLE
GUY . HE HAS POSITIONED HIMSELF
MORE MODERATELY THAN A YEAR AGO.
THAT'S PARTLY BECAUSE HE'S GOING
TO WHERE HE SAW AN OPENING IN
THE FIELD. EVERYONE IS TRYING TO
SORT OF BE NICE. JOE BIDEN IS AT
IN A LOT OF WAYS LIKE EVERYONE
ELSE WILL HAVE TO SETTLE FOR HIM
IN THE END AND
GOLLY GEE, HE IS NOT BEEN FIERY
OR ANGRY. IT DOES FEEL DIFFERENT
THAN PAST CAUCUSES.
>> WE'VE SEEN SOME STAGES AND WE
WILL WATCH TO SEE IF CANDIDATES
COME OUT. WE HAVE TO REPEAT THIS
CAVEAT THE WARNING TO VIEWERS
THAT IF YOU HEAR A CANDIDATE OR
SEE A CANDIDATE SAYING I WON OR
SUCCEEDED IN IOWA.  BUYER
BEWARE. IT'S COMPLICATED THIS
YEAR.
>> YES AND WE ARE GOING TO CALL
THE RACE BASED ON THE STATE
DELEGATE EQUIVALENTS, THAT'S
AFTER THE REALIGNMENT. THAT DOES
MATTER. IT DOES MATTER. IT IS
THE BEST IMPRESSION OF THE
OUTCOME IN THE STATE INSTEAD OF
HOW MANY PEOPLE INITIALLY TAKE A
CORNER, WHEN YOU REALLY HAVE TO
DECIDE. PEOPLE ARE TALKING TO
THEIR NEIGHBORS AND THE FIRST
NUMBERS WILL BE FASCINATING. WE
WILL ANALYZE THEM CLOSELY. WE
HAVE A TEAM OF SUPER
PROFESSIONALS IN A GREAT
ACADEMIC ENVIRONMENT TO
UNDERSTAND THEM BUT
THE SECOND WILL BE MOST
REVEALING ABOUT WHERE THE
CONTEST WILL GO AND WHO HAS THE
MOST POWER AFTER THE
EARLY STATES.
>> ONE THING TO POINT OUT IS
JUST HOW CLOSELY DIVIDED THIS
PRECINCT WAS. THE THRESHOLD FOR
VIABILITY ON THE FIRST REFERENCE
VOTE WAS 33 VOTERS. WARREN CAME
IN AT 31. OVERTURE WAS PROBABLY
AT 34. JOE BIDEN TOO. THE SHIFT
OF JUST THREE VOTES IN THIS
PRECINCT IN ONE DIRECTION OR
ANOTHER, TOTALLY CHANGES
THE OUTCOME. THAT'S ONE THING WE
HAVE TO KEEP IN MIND. I KNOW
THERE'S A COIN FLIP THAT SHUTS
ELIZABETH WARREN OUT OF THIS
PRECINCT. IF THAT BREAKS OR
DIRECTION A DIFFERENT PRECINCT
SHE WILL GET DELEGATES THAT WAY.
IN A CLOSE RACE LIKE THIS IT
WILL BE INTERESTING TO SEE HOW
DIFFERENT PRECINCTS BREAK DOWN.
>> MONTHS OF WORK AND MILLIONS
OF CAMPAIGN DOLLARS GO INTO THE
IOWA CAUCUS.  " THE WASHINGTON
POST " JEREMY BOWERS  JOINS US
TO TELL US WHY THE FOCUS ON THE
MIDWESTERN STATE IS A QUIRK IN
OUR DEMOCRATIC PROCESS.
>> Reporter: THANK YOU LIBBY. IF
WE WERE GOING TO PICK A
STATE TO EMBODY THE DEMOCRATIC
ELECTORATE THE ODDS OF US
CHOOSING IOWA WOULD BE LOW .
IOWA HAS THINGS THAT MAKE IT NOT
A PARTICULARLY GREAT STATE FOR
THIS . IT'S A LOT BOLDER. IS A
LOT LIGHTER AND IS A LOT MORE
RURAL THAN THE
DEMOCRATIC ELECTORATE.  THESE
ARE THE THINGS THAT MAKE IOWA A
DIFFICULT PLACE TO HOLD YOUR
VERY FIRST NOMINATING CONTEST
THERE. IT DOESN'T MEAN IOWA IS
ENTIRELY WITHOUT PLACES THAT
LOOK A LOT LIKE  WHAT THE
DEMOCRATIC ELECTORATE DOES. WE
HAVE CITIES LIKE DES MOINES,
CEDAR RAPIDS AND
IOWA CITY. WE HAVE NO RESULTS
YET BUT WE CERTAINLY DO
UNDERSTAND WHAT THE VOTERS THERE
LOOK LIKE AND HOW THEY WILL ACT.
THAT'S PRETTY SIMILAR TO VOTERS
IN OTHER PARTS OF THE UNITED
STATES. HERE IS SOMETHING ELSE
TO CONSIDER IF WE WERE GOING TO
PICK A DIFFERENT STATE. MAYBE WE
WOULD USE SOMETHING ENTIRELY
DIFFERENT. LET'S GO TO SOMEONE
HERE WHO HAS A LITTLE BIT OF AN
INSIGHT ON THAT.
LENNY BRONNER IF YOU ARE GOING
TO CHOOSE A STATE WHAT STATE
WOULD YOU CHOOSE INSTEAD OF IOWA
TO BE THE VERY FIRST OF THE
NOMINATING CONTEST FOR THE
DEMOCRATS?
>> THAT'S A REALLY GOOD QUESTION
THE SHORT ANSWER IS ILLINOIS BUT
IN REALITY IT DEPENDS ON THE
DEMOCRATIC PARTY IS INTERESTED
IN PICKING A STATEMENT LOOKS
MORE LIKE THE ELECTORATE AS A
WHOLE OR LIKE
THERE'S DEMOCRATIC. IF THEY WERE
TO CHOOSE ONE THAT REPRESENTS
THE COUNTRY THEY MIGHT PICK
ILLINOIS LIKE I SAID OUR
CONNECTICUT, PENNSYLVANIA. IF
THEY WANT ONE THAT LOOKS MORE
DEMOCRATIC THEY WOULD CHOOSE NEW
JERSEY. THERE'S A GREAT PIECE
ABOUT THIS WRITTEN BY JEFFREY
SKELLY THAT PEOPLE SHOULD CHECK
OUT.
>> THAT WAS A GOOD PIECE I READ
IT. IF I WAS GOING TO CHOOSE A
STATE I WOULD CHOOSE FLORIDA.
IT'S REALLY LARGE. IT'S REALLY
DIVERSE. IT HAS A GREAT MIX OF
URBAN AREAS, SUBURBAN AREAS,
EXURBAN AND RURAL AREAS THAT ARE
FAR FROM
THE COAST. ONE OF THE THINGS
THAT IT HAS GOING FOR IT IS THEY
RUN A RELATIVELY LARGE ELECTION
YEAR AFTER YEAR, WHICH MAKES IT
A PLACE WITH TYPICALLY A SWING
STATE. THAT'S WHAT WE HAVE ON
IOWA AT THE MOMENT  LET'S KICK
IT BACK FOR YOU ON THE GROUND IN
IOWA.
>> THANK YOU JEREMY. WE ARE
STILL WAITING ON RESULTS. WHAT
WILL IT LOOK LIKE WHEN THEY DO
COME IN? JEREMY, CAN YOU HEAR
ME? YOU ARE LEAVING ME HANGING.
WE ARE ALL DESPERATE FOR RESULTS
BUT WHEN THEY DO COME IN HOW
WILL YOU CRUNCH THAT DATA?
>> Reporter: WE'VE BEEN TALKING
ABOUT THAT HERE IN THE STUDIO.
OUR THOUGHT IS IF WE HAD GOTTEN
RESULTS EARLY WE WOULD GET SMALL
PRECINCTS IN COUNTIES THAT WERE
PRETTY RURAL USUALLY IN THE WEST
MAYBE TO THE NORTH. NOW WE ARE
THINKING THERE HAVE BEEN A LOT
OF COUNTING GOING ON AND SO WHEN
WE GET THE RESULTS THERE WILL BE
A LARGE SWATH OF THE STATE. IT'S
UNLIKELY WE WILL GET A LOT OF
URBAN AREAS THOSE ARE TYPICALLY
THE LAST AND THE PLACES WE WILL
LEAST LIKELY TO SEE EARLY
RESULTS. IF I HAD TO PUT MONEY
ON IT, I WOULD SAY WE WOULD SEE
STUFF FROM RURAL AREAS IN THE
WEST END NORTH OF THE STATE.
>>
ALL RIGHT. YOU HAVE QUIET NOW
BUT YOU WILL BE SO BUSY REALLY
SOON. THANK YOU. EUGENE THIS
QUESTION IS WHICH STATE IS
REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEMOCRATIC
VERSUS THE REPUBLICAN POPULACE
IS SO INTERESTING. WE HEARD
EARLIER
THAT IRELAND'S ARE VERY PROUD OF
THEIR ROLE AS THE FIRST DAY IN
THE NATION AND I LOVE YOUR
INSIGHT ABOUT HOW THEY WERE
THINKING ABOUT THEIR OWN
PERSONAL ISSUES AS VOTERS ASKED
ABOUT THE ISSUES OF THE NATION
IN THEIR NEIGHBORS AND PEOPLE
WHO MIGHT NOT LOOK LIKE THEM. I
WOULD LOVE TO HEAR MORE FROM YOU
ABOUT THIS QUESTION OF IOWA'S
FUTURE AND HOW SOME OF THE
DEMOCRATIC CANDIDATES ARE
WEIGHING IN IN TERMS OF HOW THEY
FEEL ABOUT IOWA.
>> DEMOGRAPHICALLY, WE KNOW IOWA
LOOKS DIFFERENT IN ITS
POPULATION THAN A
DECADE AGO. THERE ARE MORE
LATINO IMMIGRANTS IN THE STATE
THAN MOST REALIZE. THERE'S A
SIZABLE BLACK POPULATION IN THE
MORE URBAN AREAS AND EVEN
SUBURBAN AREAS LIKE OMAHA,
PEOPLE DON'T THINK OF THAT OF
HIS IOWA BUT YOU HAVE COUNSELED
BLUFFS IS A SUBURB
OF OMAHA. THIS IS SHAPING SOME
OF THE CONVERSATIONS IS PEOPLE
ARE TRYING TO PROCESS WHETHER OR
NOT IT'S USUALLY IMMIGRATION,
FAITH IN POLICE BRUTALITY AND
ISSUES RELATED TO STUDENTS AND
MILLENNIALS TRYING TO BECOME
FINANCIALLY STABLE
AND SECURE. THEY ARE JUST
LOOKING FOR CANDIDATES THAT
COULD ADDRESS THESE ISSUES. WE
ARE SEEING THE IDEA THAT
EVERYONE BEING IN THE STATE IS
OLDER AND WHITE NOT SUPPORTED BY
THE NUMBERS ANYMORE.
>> PROFESSOR.
>> GET DEPENDS WHAT PART OF THE
STATE YOU ARE IN. IF YOU ARE IN
IOWA CITY YOU SEE
MORE DIVERSITY. IT'S MUCH LESS
SO IN THE RURAL AREAS. SOMETIMES
HAVE LARGE POPULATIONS OF LATINO
WORKERS WHO HAVE SETTLED INTO
THOSE AREAS. THEIR POPULATION
HAS TRANSFORMED DRAMATICALLY.
BUT IT'S SCATTERSHOT ACROSS
RURAL IOWA. ONE THING THAT IS
INTERESTING IS THIS HAS A LOT OF
ELECTORAL CONSEQUENCES. WE'VE
SEEN CANDIDATES LIKE COREY
BOOKER DROP OUT OF THE RACE.
IT'S CONSEQUENTLY JOE BIDEN
BECAUSE LACK VOTERS ARE
ENTHUSIASTIC FOR JOE BIDEN WHEN
WE'VE POLLED ABOUT HIM IN THE
GRINNELL COLLEGE NATIONAL POLL.
WE SEE HIGHER LEVELS OF
ENTHUSIASM FOR BIDEN AMONG BLACK
THAN WHITE VOTERS. THERE'S A LOT
OF WAYS I THINK IN WHICH RACE IS
AFFECTING THE START OF THIS
PRESIDENTIAL RACE. ONE IS
PROBABLY THAT WITH HIS GROUP OF
CANDIDATES, BIDEN WOULD DO
BETTER IN A MORE DIVERSE STATE.
>> ONE THING THAT IS INTERESTING
IS BERNIE SANDERS WHOLE THEORY
WAS EXPANDING THE ELECTORATE.
ONE OF THE THINGS THEY WERE
DOING IS THERE ARE LATINOS AND
MORE THAN PEOPLE OUTSIDE OF IOWA
WOULD THINK. THERE ARE MEET
HACKING TOWNS AND SOME OF THE
CONSERVATIVE AREAS. THE CITY
WHERE STEVE KING HIS FROM AND
STORM LAKE HAS A
SPANISH-LANGUAGE NEWSPAPER. A
LOT OF THEM ARE CITIZENS. THE
BERNIE SANDERS CAMPAIGN HAS MADE
A HUGE EFFORT PARTLY BECAUSE
THEY FELT
LIKE THEY DIDN'T MAKE AN EFFORT
IN 2016 TO TRY AND MOBILIZE SOME
OF THESE LATINAS WHO'VE NEVER
PARTICIPATED OR VOTED OR
CAUCUSED. ONE OF THE THINGS THAT
WILL BE INTERESTING IS WHETHER
SANDERS WAS ABLE TO GET SOME OF
THEM TO CAUCUSES IN THE
WORKING-CLASS AREAS AROUND DES
MOINES. JENNA JOHNSON WROTE A
STORY ABOUT THE FIELD ORGANIZING
WITH THESE LATINO VOTERS WHO'VE
NEVER VOTED BEFORE. THAT IS
HARDER BECAUSE IT'S NOT A CUSTOM
AND A HABIT. IT WILL BE
INTERESTING TO SEE IF THOSE
NUMBERS COME THROUGH.
>> THE CAUCUS EXPERIENCE IS SO
DIFFERENT THAN A PRIVATE PRIMARY
ESPECIALLY WHEN THE PRIMARY YOU
CAN SHOW UP ANYTIME IN MANY
WOULD SEE
IT BEYOND TODAY BUT THE CAUCUS
YOU'VE GOT TO BE COMMITTED TO
SHOW UP AT 7:00 AND OUR COLLIE
DAVE WEIKEL IS JOINING US FROM
DES MOINES. YOU'VE BEEN ALL
OVER. I THOUGHT YOU MOVED HERE.
I'D LOVE TO HEAR WHAT YOU ARE
WATCHING AS WE WAIT FOR THE
RETURNS.
>> I CAN'T WAIT FOR SOMETHING TO
WATCH. WE'VE GOT PRECINCTS
COMING IN
SLOWLY AND WE HAVE AND ENTRANCE
POLL AND I KEEP GETTING THAT
WRONG GETTING ADJUSTED WAIVED BY
WAVE. I'VE LEARNED TO NOT PAY
ATTENTION TO ANY HORSERACE
NUMBERS UNTIL MORE ARE IN IN
THIS POINT THE ENTRANCE POLL
FOUR YEARS AGO THEY SO IT TRUMP
WOULD EKE IT OUT AND HILLARY HAD
A NARROW LEAD. BOTH WERE OFF IN
A FEW POINTS IN THIS RACE IT'S
THE DIFFERENCE BETWEEN FIRST AND
FOURTH. ONCE WE GET THINGS
ROLLING IN I'M LOOKING AT DES
MOINES AND THEY ARE A PRETTY
BATTLE BETWEEN
WARREN AND BUTTIGIEG AND SOME
STRENGTH FOR KLOBUCHAR  AND NOT
A LOT OF STRENGTH FOR SANDERS.
HE SEEMS TO HAVE SUCCEEDED IN
PULLING OUT THESE LESS LIKELY
VOTERS, NONWHITE VOTERS THAT YOU
ARE TALKING ABOUT. I'M LOOKING
AT ONCE WE QUIT BUENA VISTA
COUNTY AND ONCE WE GET BLACK
HAWK COUNTY WHERE THE CAMPAIGN
WAS VERY FOCUSED. I WANT TO SEE
THAT. I WANT TO SEE EASTERN IOWA
WHICH IS KIND OF ABSENT. NOT
LIKE SCOTT OR DUBUQUE BUT WHAT
YOU COULD SEE ON THE GROUND IN
THE LAST MONTH WITH WARREN
GETTING LOYAL CROWDS BUT
SMALLER. THE BUTTIGIEG
MAINTAINED CROWDS EVEN THOUGH HE
WAS LEFT OUT OF THE
CONVERSATION.  BIDEN NEVER
PICKING UP IN PLACES WHERE HE
SHOULD BE STRONG LIKE TO BE,
FRANKLY. HE SHOULD'VE HAD THAT
PLACE WIRED A LONG TIME AGO. THE
ONLY THING THAT IS CLEAR FOR THE
LAST HOUR IF ANYTHING IS CLEAR
IS THAT BIDEN  IS NOT A STRONG
CANDIDATE ESPECIALLY WHEN PEOPLE
REALIGNED. THAT MAKE SENSE. IF
YOU REALLY LOVE JOE BIDEN YOU
HAD FOUR YEARS TO MAKE UP YOUR
MIND ABOUT HIM. WE SAW STARTING
IN MARCH LAST YEAR, ONE THING
VOTERS IN IOWA WERE CONSISTENT
AND I'M QUOTING THE SELTZER FULL
WAS THAT THEY WERE UNCOMFORTABLE
WITH OLD CANDIDATES WHO THEY
FELT WERE PASSED THEIR PRIME IT
WAS CLOSE TO 40% OF IOWANS FELT
SANDERS AND BIDEN WERE PASSED
THEIR PRIME SO THERE WAS
CANDIDATE WHO IS NOT GOING TO BE
EITHER AND I THINK BUTTIGIEG DID
A LITTLE BIT BETTER . ONE WAY TO
LOOK AT THIS FRIENDLY IS TO LOOK
AT THE POLL A YEAR AGO. THE ONLY
CANDIDATES WHO COULD'VE DONE
WORSE BECAUSE OF THAT ARE BIDEN
AND SANDERS. BIDEN MUCH WORSE
AND SANDERS HOLDING HIS NUMBERS
IN THE QUESTION IS  WHETHER
BUTTIGIEG IMPROVED ENOUGH TO
PASS THEM .
>> DAVE, WHAT VOTER QUESTIONS
WERE BEING ASKED
AT EVENTS. WE'VE SEEN SO MANY
PEOPLE THAT WERE UNDECIDED INTO
THE FINAL DAYS. WHAT WERE THEY
STILL ASKING?
>> THEY WERE ASKING ABOUT
ELECTABILITY AND IT'S TOUGH IF
YOU'RE REPORTER. ONCE YOU GET
NEWS IN THE NEWS IS BETTER AND
THE INFORMATION IS NEW BUT YOU
STILL HEAR PEOPLE ASK THEMSELVES
WHO MIGHT WIN AND WHO MIGHT BE
TRUMP. WHO CAN I
VOTE FOR WHERE I WILL NOT REGRET
IT IN 10 MONTHS AND THERE WAS A
LOT OF INDECISION. I FOUND AT
SANDERS AND
WARREN RALLIES IT'S DIFFERENT
BECAUSE SANDERS VOTERS ARE
HUNDRED % CONVINCED. PEOPLE AT
WARREN RALLIES LOVED HER. YOU
WERE
FINDING PEOPLE COMING TO SEE
KLOBUCHAR AND BUTTIGIEG DECIDING
WHICH HAD A BETTER
ELECTABILITY ARGUMENT. WE ARE
WAITING FOR EXIT POLLS TO ADJUST
BUT I'M STILL FASCINATED BY THAT
QUESTION. BECAUSE SANDERS HAS
BEEN RUNNING A BERNIE BEATS
TRUMP MESSAGING CAMPAIGN. IT'S A
PUBLIC BUMPER STICKER AND I'M
NOT SURE HE MADE INROADS ON THE
QUESTION. FOR A CAMPAIGN THAT
WAS REALLY GIDDY AND THEY WERE
TRACKING SHOWED HIM WINNING
PRETTY EASILY. THEY WERE TALKING
CONFIDENTLY ABOUT WINNING THE
FIRST THREE STATES AND BLOWING
OUT SUPER TUESDAY. I'M NOT SURE
WHAT MOVE AFTER THIS BUT THEY
MIGHT NOT HAVE HAD THE ABILITY
TO CONVINCE PEOPLE THAT BERNIE
SANDERS WOULD BE THE OLDEST
PRESIDENT AS WOULD BIDEN . AS
ALMOST WOULD ELIZABETH WARREN
BUT I'M NOT SURE THEY'VE GOT THE
WAY THEY THOUGHT THEY WOULD.
>>
SO DAVE, WE ARE WATCHING TO SEE
HOW THE CANDIDATES COME ON STAGE
AND HOW THEY TALK TO THE VOTERS,
TO THE AMERICAN PUBLIC AT LARGE.
PLEASE TALK US THROUGH WHAT WE
SHOULD LISTEN FOR. THERE'S A
QUESTION OF WHO DECLARES VICTORY
AND WHAT THAT MEANS IN IOWA.
WHAT ARE YOU GOING TO BE WEARY
OF IF YOU HEAR A CANDIDATE SAY,
WE GOT THIS MUCH SUPPORT. IS IT
REALLY GOING TO BE THE DELICATE
COUNTS? WHAT WILL YOU BE
WATCHING VERSUS WHAT THE
CANDIDATES ARE WATCHING?
>> WELL, A RESULT IN WHICH FOUR
PEOPLE GET DELEGATES AND
DEPENDING ON HOW AMY KLOBUCHAR
DOES  IN THE FIRST DISTRICT THE
ONE THAT TOUCHES MINNESOTA WITH
THE BIGGEST POPULATION. THE
POSSIBILITY OF FIVE CANDIDATES
GETTING A DELEGATE OUT OF THE
STATE WHICH NEVER HAPPENED
BEFORE. IF THEY WANT TO SPEND
THE VICTORY OUT OF THIS, I
CANNOT BLAME THEM. I'M ONE OF
THOSE PEOPLE WHO I COVER HE
EVERY PART OF THIS PROCESS. I
UNDERSTAND THE FRUSTRATION WHEN
PEOPLE SAY THE STATE IN WHICH 1%
OF THE VOTE SHOULD DECIDE
EVERYTHING. I THINK WITH
KLOBUCHAR HAVING THE HOMETOWN
ADVANTAGE AND COMING TO IOWA
ALMOST MORE THAN ANYBODY , IF
SHE WANTS TO SPIN THAT SHE HAD A
STRONGER SHOWING THAN EXPECTED.
I THINK SHE CAN. WHAT I HAD NOT
HEARD
YET FROM THE THREE SENATORS WHO
WERE TIED UP THE LAST COUPLE OF
WEEKS IS IF SOMEONE LIKE
BUTTIGIEG CAN WIN  THEN I'VE NOT
YET HEARD DENNIS THAT I WOULD
EXPECT THAT MAYBE THEY COULD
HAVE BROKEN OUT AND THEY DIDN'T.
THE ONE THING AGAINST THAT IS
BIDEN  GOT ALL THE TIME HE
WANTED TO CAMPAIGN IN IOWA
WEIGHT NO I MEANT THE OPPOSITE.
TO LOOK AT THE LATE DECIDERS IT
DOES SEEM TO BE A SLIGHT
ADVANTAGE FOR BIDEN AND
BUTTIGIEG.  IT'S NOT ANYTHING
AMAZING IN THE LAST WEEK TO GRAB
THAT EXCEPT THAT ONE
CONSISTENTLY VOTERS HAVE THOUGHT
THEY WERE MORE ELECTABLE IN TWO
THEY HAD THE TIME TO SPEND HERE.
I DON'T KNOW. IF FIVE PEOPLE
DECLARE A VICTORY I THINK THE
ONLY PERSON THAT WOULD BE HARD
TO SPIN FOUR IS BIDEN. HE WOULD
COME OUT OF THE STATE WITH THE
ENDORSEMENT OF TWO IOWA'S LIVING
GOVERNORS, JOHN KERRY'S
ENDORSEMENT  AND MEMBERS OF
CONGRESS MAKING THE PITCH. I
THINK THEY WOULD HAVE TO SPIN
THE STATE IS NOT A
REPRESENTATIVE EXAMPLE OF THE
CANDIDATE. THE PROBLEM IS BIDEN
WOULD POINT OUT  IS THE TOUGH
PARTS OF IOWA ARE THE PARTS
WHERE  DEMOCRATS NEED TO WIN
LOOK EXACTLY LIKE WHAT IT WILL
BE NEEDED TO WIN THE MIDWEST.
LOSING A CONTEST IS NOT AS GOOD
AS WINNING. BUTTIGIEG  WOULD
HAVE THE ABILITY TO SAY I
APPROVE I CAN
DO THIS. TAKE THAT FOR WHAT YOU
WANT.
>> THANK YOU DAVE WEIGLE. WE
WILL CHECK IN WITH YOU LATER.
I'M GOING TO TURN IT BACK TO
PROFESSOR PETER HANSEN. WHO IS
THIS A MAKE IT OR BREAK IT
MOMENT FOR. WHO DO YOU WATCH TO
COME OUT WITH THE NARRATIVE OF
SUCCESS. I KNOW THAT SUCCESS CAN
MEAN DIFFERENT THINGS FOR
DIFFERENT CANDIDATES.
>> BIDEN FOR STARTERS IF HE
DOESN'T DO WELL IN IOWA THEN WE
ARE HEADED TO NEW HAMPSHIRE
WHERE BERNIE SANDERS WILL DO
WELL. THERE WILL BE TWO STATES
IN A ROW WHERE BIDEN  DOES NOT
DO WELL IF HE DOESN'T DO WELL
HERE TONIGHT. IT MAY NOT BE
UNTIL
SOUTH CAROLINA WHERE HE HAS
SUCCESS. IF HE GOES FOR THAT
LONG WITHOUT A CLEAR SIGN OF
VICTORY. I THINK THAT WILL BE
HARD FOR HIS CAMPAIGN AND MAKE
IT HARD FOR HIM TO GET
VOLUNTEERS AND RAISE MONEY. THIS
IS A MAKE OR BREAK MOMENT FOR
AMY KLOBUCHAR. IF THERE'S ONE
STATE WHERE SHE SHOULD DO WELL
IT'S IOWA. SHE'S A NEIGHBOR AND
WELL-RESPECTED. SHE SPENT A LOT
OF TIME. SHE'S BEEN PICKING UP
MOMENTUM. IF IMPEACHMENT HURT
ANYONE IT
HURT KLOBUCHAR. JUST AS SHE WAS
STARTING TO GAIN SOME STEAM SHE
HAD TO START SPENDING TIME IN
WASHINGTON. THERE WASN'T MUCH OF
AN OBVIOUS EFFECT ON THE NUMBERS
BUT IT SEEMS TO HAVE STALLED
KLOBUCHAR'S MOMENTUM. THOSE
CANDIDATES I THINK IT'S CLEARLY
A MAKE OR BREAK MOMENT. I'M
GUESSING BOTH WARREN AND SANDERS
WILL COME OUT WITH SOME
DELEGATES AND CLAIM SUCCESS TO
LIVE ON ANOTHER DAY. FOR THE
OTHERS I THINK THEY NEED TO
DEMONSTRATE THAT THEY CAN
SUCCEED IN AN ELECTION.
>> WHAT WAS THE TAKE HERE IN
CANAL SPECIFICALLY ABOUT THIS
IDEA OF THE CANDIDATES BEING
GONE IN WASHINGTON. PEOPLE
UNDERSTOOD AND KNEW WHY THEY
COULD NOT BE HERE. IT DOESN'T
SEEM THERE IS DISAPPOINTMENT BUT
THERE DOES SEEM TO BE AN ABSENCE
OF RETAIL POLITICS, LIKE TIME
AND ENERGY GETTING TO KNOW THE
CANDIDATES. WHAT IT AMY
KLOBUCHAR LOSE OUT ON?
>> I CANNOT UNDERSTAND OR
UNDERESTIMATE
THE POLITICS. I JOKE WITH MY
FAMILY THAT IF THE CANDIDATE
HASN'T COME TO THE LIBRARY THE
ON TRYING HARD. IOWANS CAN MEET
AND TALK TO ALL OF THESE
CANDIDATES DIRECTLY. THE VOTERS
EXPECT THAT. THAT KIND OF
ONE-ON-ONE INTERACTION TO SEE A
CANDIDATE IN YOUR HOMETOWN IS
SOMETHING THAT'S CRITICAL TO
BUILDING THE MOMENTUM TO
PERSUADING THOSE UNDECIDED
VOTERS IN A WAY THEY DON'T GET
THOSE OPPORTUNITIES AS
CONSEQUENTIAL.
>> JAMES, WHAT ARE YOU WATCHING
FOR TONIGHT IN TERMS OF WHO
NEEDS TO HAVE SUCCESS? BUT
>> DAVE IS PESSIMISTIC ON BIDEN
. BUT IT IS INTERESTING ABOUT
WHAT HE
SAID IN THE LATE DECIDERS WENT
TO BIDEN  AND BUTTIGIEG.  THEY
WERE CAMPED OUT AND THEY WERE
PRESENT AND THEY WERE ON
TELEVISION ON THE LOCAL NEWS
EVERY NIGHT.  IF BIDEN  REALLY
DOES
UNDERPERFORM HERE AND IT'S
IMPORTANT TO KNOW WE HAVE NOT
HEARD FROM EASTERN IOWA.  THOSE
ARE WHO WE ARE WAITING TO HEAR
FROM. HE DID SPEND HIS TIME
THERE AND HE IS A STRONG PERSON
THERE HE'S LEANED ON HIS
CATHOLIC FAITH. HE DID A SPEECH
YESTERDAY TO CATHOLICS. IF BIDEN
DOES UNDERPERFORM IT'S
PROBLEMATIC . YOU LOOKED AT THE
MONEY PART. BIDEN HAS
RESERVED  LESS TIME FOR
COMMERCIALS IN NEW HAMPSHIRE
THAN ANY OF THE OTHER TOP-TIER
CANDIDATES. HIS SUPER-PAC IS
CONSIDERED NOT PLAYING IN NEW
HAMPSHIRE AND FRIGHTENING ENOUGH
TO SANDERS AND WARREN. THEN YOU
END UP IN NEVADA WHERE IT'S NOT
OBVIOUS. ALL OF THE SUDDEN THE
MONEY DOES DRY UP EVEN FOR
SOMEONE LIKE BIDEN . IF YOUR
WHOLE PITCH IS THAT YOU CAN WIN
IN ANYWHERE AND YOU CAN BEAT
TRUMP IN RED STATES. IF YOU
CAN'T WIN IN IOWA IT'S A CAUCUS
NOT A PRIMARY OR GENERAL
ELECTION. IF YOU CANNOT WIN IN
THESE COUNTIES IT WILL UNDERCUT
-- IT'S HARD TO OVERSTATE WHEN
YOU GO TO THESE BIDEN  EVENTS
HOW MUCH OF THE RATIONALE IS HE
CAN WIN. THAT IS IT. THAT IS THE
MAIN THING THAT BIDEN HIMSELF
SAYS IN HIS SPEECHES. THE DANGER
FOR HIM IS THAT HE COULD LOSE
THAT TONIGHT.
>> LET'S GO TO OUR COLLEAGUE
SEAN SULLIVAN
WHO IS COVERING THE SANDERS
CAMPAIGN. KEYS AT THE WATCH
PARTY. THANK YOU FOR JOINING US
BY PHONE. HOW ARE PEOPLE FEELING
IN THE ROOM?
>> RIGHT NOW IT'S PRETTY UPBEAT
ATMOSPHERE PEOPLE ARE TRICKLING
IN. A LOT OF PEOPLE ARE GLUED TO
THEIR PHONES. THERE ARE TWO BIG
SCREENS AT THE FRONT OF
THE ROOM. PEOPLE ARE WATCHING
THE RESULTS. I THINK THEY'RE
WONDERING WHAT THE DELAY IS.
THESE CONVERSATIONS ARE
CAUTIOUSLY OPTIMISTIC. PEOPLE
WONDER WHY THESE RESULTS HAVEN'T
BEEN REPORTED YET. A LOT OF
REFRESHING ON THE SMART PHONES
AND PEOPLE HAVE LAPTOPS. SO FAR,
THE MOOD IS FAIRLY UP THE.
>>
OKAY, WHAT DOES SUCCESS LOOK
LIKE FOR BERNIE SANDERS? WHAT
DOES HE NEED TO DO?
>> THE EXPECTATIONS HAVE BEEN
VERY HIGH OVER THE LAST COUPLE
OF WEEKS. HE PLACED VERY HIGHLY
IN SOME RECENT POLLS. THERE IS
AN EXPECTATION AMONG A LOT OF
DEMOCRATS THAT IF HE CAN GET A
WIN HERE AND IF HE DOES NOT IT
COULD BE A DISAPPOINTMENT. IF
HE DOES, THE NEXT STATE UP IS
NEW HAMPSHIRE WHERE HE WILL
PERFORM
VERY WELL. IN 2016 HE PERFORMED
WELL. WE'VE SEEN IN PAST YEARS
HOW ONE
STATE RESULTS CAN DIRECTLY
IMPACT HOW PEOPLE THINK ABOUT
THE ELECTION IN THE NEXT STATE.
THERE IS A LOT HERE FOR SANDERS,
PRELIMINARY RESULTS COULD BE
GOOD BUT THEY ARE PRELIMINARY
AND WE WON'T KNOW MUCH UNTIL WE
GET A BIGGER CHUNK
OF NUMBERS.
>> SO, I'M SO CURIOUS ABOUT WHAT
THE CLOSING ARGUMENT WAS FOR
BERNIE SANDERS AND HOW THINGS
HAVE GONE AS HE'S BEEN LOCKED IN
WASHINGTON STUCK IN THIS
IMPEACHMENT TRIAL. WE'VE HEARD
THE SENATOR SAY THIS IS MY DUTY
BUT SANDERS SEEMED TO TO BE MOST
WILLING TO EXPRESS FRUSTRATION
AT BEING STUCK
IN WASHINGTON.
>> THAT'S RIGHT. HE WAS REALLY
OUTSPOKEN ABOUT THAT. HE WAS
PRETTY BLUNT ABOUT HIS BELIEF
THAT IT MIGHT BE
A DISADVANTAGE AND HE FREQUENTLY
SAID, I'D RATHER BE AN IOWA OR I
WOULD RATHER BE IN NEW
HAMPSHIRE.  HE HAS HAD A PRETTY
SUBSTANTIAL ARMY OF SURROGATES
WHO BEEN OUT CAMPAIGNING FOR
HIM. CONGRESSWOMAN ALEXANDRIA
OCASIO-CORTEZ, MICHAEL MOORE,
ILHAN OMAR AND OTHERS WHO HAVE
BEEN CAMPAIGNING. THEY BEEN
GOING TO CANVAS LAUNCHES AND
SPEAKING AT RALLIES. IT'S
BEEN CLEAR THAT THIS IS NOT
IDEAL. PART OF
HIS CLOSING IF YOU WANT TO BEAT
PRESIDENT DONALD TRUMP THE WAY
TO
DO THAT
HE'S TRYING TO CALL FOR SWEEPING
CHANGE
TO ELECTABILITY. THAT
MORE EXPLICITLY
THE BIGGEST PRIORITY IS FIGURING
OUT WHICH CANDIDATE GIVES THEM
THE BEST. HE'S TRYING TO
PROVE THAT.
TELL ME ABOUT HIS LIFE RIGHT
NOW.
>> IT'S NOT A LOT OF DOWNTIME OR
A LOT OF SLEEP OR A LOT OF TIME
TO RELAX. USUALLY, WHEN YOU
DON'T HAVE AN IMPEACHMENT TRIAL
THE CAMPAIGN SCHEDULE IS HECTIC
AS IT IS. YOU ARE TALKING ABOUT
SOMETIMES 12, 15, 18 HOUR DAYS
BUT THEN YOU ADD IMPEACHMENT
TRIAL IN THE FACT THAT HE'S HAD
TO TRAVEL BACK AND FORTH. ALL
THE SENATORS HAVE HAD TO DO
THAT. I CAUGHT UP WITH AMY
KLOBUCHAR EARLIER. SHE SAID SHE
WAS RUNNING 3.5 HOURS OF SLEEP
TRYING TO BALANCE REMOTELY WITH
BEING IN THE SENATE FOR THE
IMPEACHMENT TRIAL. IT WEARS THE
CANDIDATES DOWN. IT CAN TAKE A
TOLL ON THEM. IT'S WORTH KEEPING
IN MIND THEY
BEEN ACTIVE. THEY ARE
WORKING OVERTIME. THAT IS THE
KIND OF THING THAT IS A BIG
COMING UP OR IF YOU HAVE A
TOWNHALL WHEN YOU GET TOUGH
QUESTIONS. WE'VE SEEN CANDIDATES
SLIP UP IN THE PAST, ESPECIALLY
WHEN THEY ARE TIRED. IT'S
SOMETHING TO KEEP
IN MIND.
>> ALL RIGHT SEAN SULLIVAN,
THANK YOU FOR TALKING WITH US
AND WE WILL BE WATCHING TO SEE
WHAT HAPPENS IN THE WORLD A
BERNIE SANDERS TONIGHT. WE
APPRECIATE YOUR TIME. JAMES,
WHAT ABOUT THIS ELECTABILITY AND
KNOWLEDGE SANDERS
IS TAILORING HIS ELECTABILITY.
WHY IS THAT IMPORTANT AND WHO
DOES HE HAVE TO CONVINCE.
>> IT'S CRITICAL. BERNIE SANDERS
HAD A HEART ATTACK A COUPLE
MONTHS AGO. THAT FITS INTO THE
ELECTABILITY QUESTION. THE
CONVENTION IT WAS IN DC WHEN HE
HAD HIS HEART ATTACK WHILE
CAMPAIGNING IN NEVADA AND IT WAS
THE BEGINNING OF THE END WHERE
HE HAD LOYAL FOLLOWERS. THIS
WILL SO DOUBTS THAT A
77-YEAR-OLD CAN BE PRESIDENT AND
WIN THE NOMINATION BE THE
STANDARD PARTY BEARER BUT
INSTEAD IT HELPED HIM. HIS LOW
POINT WAS WHEN HE HAD A HEART
ATTACK. HE'S COME BACK FROM
THAT.
>> BY HELPING HIM WAS BECAUSE IT
FORCED HIM TO RESET? WAS IT TO
COLLECT
HIMSELF?
>> EXACTLY, HE WAS MORE
SYMPATHETIC AND I THINK FROM
WHEN HE CAME BACK AFTER THE
COUPLE WEEKS OFTEN FOR MATT HE
MADE THE ELECTABILITY PITCH
WHICH IS THE SIGNS PEOPLE SAY
BERNIE BEATS TRUMP. HE NOW TALKS
ABOUT AS I SAID, HE WILL EXPAND
THE ELECTORATE AND BRING NEW
PEOPLE IN. HE CAN BUILD A
WORKING CLASS COALITION AND HAS
MADE INROADS WITH COMMUNITIES OF
COLORS.
BY EMPHASIZING. LIBERALS CARE
HISTORICALLY
GEORGE McGOVERN GOT BLOWN OUT
AND A LOT OF IT WAS ACTIVISTS
THAT HATED THE VIETNAM WAR AND
PEOPLE TODAY DON'T THINK OF
GEORGE McGOVERN BUT THEY DO
THINK OF
DONALD TRUMP
>> IT'S LIKE WHO DO I THINK CAN
BEAT DONALD TRUMP.
>> ERNIE HAS THEIR HEARTS AND
HE'S TRYING TO GET THEIR HEADS.
I THINK BECAUSE HE HAD THE 2016
BASIS HE CAN TAKE THE HEARTS FOR
GRANTED IN SOMEWAY AND FOCUS ON
THE HEADS. I THINK THAT IS WHAT
GOT HIM TO THIS POINT WHERE HE
IS AT THE TOP OF THE RACE. IT'S
CLOSE BUT HE GOT THERE BECAUSE
HE WAS ABLE TO PIVOT POST HEART
ATTACK TO MAKE THE ELECTABILITY
PITCH.
>> LET'S GO BACK TO WASHINGTON
WHERE DAVID BYLER IS STANDING
BY. WHAT'S HAPPENING?
>> RIGHT NOW WE ARE WAITING FOR
VOTES ON THE DEMOCRATIC SIDE BUT
WHILE WE ARE WAITING WE'VE SEEN
THAT WE HAVE VOTES COMING IN FOR
THE REPUBLICAN. IT'S EASY TO
FORGET WITH ALL OF THE
EXCITEMENT ON THE DEMOCRATIC
SIDE THAT PRESIDENT DONALD TRUMP
DOES HAVE TO COMPETE IN A
PRIMARY THIS YEAR. AND YOU CAN
SEE HERE, HE'S DOING REALLY
WELL. ALL OF THESE RED AND DARK
RED COUNTIES ARE PLACES HE'S WON
AND WHERE WE HAVE THE
DATA IN. THESE LIKE RED COUNTIES
ARE ALSO PLACES WHERE HE'S
WINNING BUT WE DON'T HAVE ALL OF
OUR DATA. YOU CAN SEE OVER HERE
THAT TRUMP HAS 97% OF THE VOTE,
TOTAL. THAT'S HUGE. THAT'S
PARTIALLY BECAUSE OF THE
POLARIZATION THAT WE'VE SEEN IN
OUR AGE. WE'VE SEEN THE PARTIES
LINEUP A CULTURE AND JUST GET
MORE
HARDENED AND DEMOCRATS ALWAYS
SUPPORTING DEMOCRATS AND
REPUBLICANS ALWAYS SUPPORTING
REPUBLICANS. REPUBLICANS REALLY
GET BEHIND THE PRESIDENT BUT
PART OF IT IS BECAUSE HIS
COMPETITORS AREN'T NECESSARILY
THE PEOPLE THAT TRUMP'S
SKEPTICAL REPUBLICANS WOULD HAVE
WANTED. YOU HAVE BILL WELD THE
GOVERNOR OF MASSACHUSETTS IN THE
90s AND IS SORT OF AN OLD-SCHOOL
LIBERAL REPUBLICAN. AT ONE POINT
IF MEMORY SERVES HE DECLARED TO
BE THE MOST PRO-CHOICE CANDIDATE
BUT THAT DOESN'T FLY WELL WITH A
PARTY WHERE EVANGELICALS AND
PRO-LIFE VOTERS ARE STRONG. HE
IS NOT TAKING MUCH OF THE VOTE
AND NEITHER IS JOE WALSH. JOE
WALSH IS A TALK RADIO HOST WHO
HAD A CONVERSION AWAY FROM TRUMP
AND AWAY FROM TRUMPISM AND IS
TRYING TO MAKE THE CASE AGAINST
TRUMP BUT HE HAS JUST A FEW
VOTES FEWER THAN WEALTH. WHAT WE
SEE HERE IS TRUMP DOING WELL IN
A STATE THAT WAS A STRUGGLE LAST
TIME. LAST TIME AROUND, TED CRUZ
WON
IN IOWA AND HAS A STRONG
EVANGELICAL BASE BUT TRUMP
DELIVERED FOR A LOT OF PIECES
OVER THE REPUBLICAN PARTY ON
POLICY AND REPUBLICANS LIKE HIM.
THEY THINK HE HAS A GOOD SHOT AT
WINNING. POLLS ARE TRAILING BUT
NOT OVERWHELMINGLY. HE COULD
MAKE
IT UP. THIS HERE IS ALSO PART OF
THE REASON THAT DEMOCRATS ARE
THINKING THROUGH THEIR CHOICES
IN THE WAY THAT THEY ARE. THEY
DON'T JUST WANT SOMEONE WHO IS A
PERFECT STANDARD. THEY WANT
SOMEONE WHO WILL BE ABLE TO BEAT
TRUMP BECAUSE IN OUR POLARIZED
ERA THAT'S THE FIRST GOAL FOR
BOTH PARTIES IT'S TOO WIN THE
ELECTION. THANK YOU SO MUCH.
BACK TO YOU LIBBY.
>> THANK YOU GREAT POINTS. LET'S
BRING IT BACK TO PROFESSOR
HANSEN. IT'S EASY TO FORGET THAT
THIS REPUBLICAN CAUCUS BUT WE
CLEARLY SEE HOW THAT
IS GOING. HOW MUCH DID YOU HEAR
PRESIDENT DONALD TRUMP'S NAME
BEING USED AS CANDIDATES MADE
THEIR CLOSING ARGUMENTS IN LAST
COUPLE OF WEEKS?
>> NOT AS MUCH AS YOU WOULD
THINK. YOU HEAR SOME CANDIDATES
LIKE BUTTIGIEG SAY ONE DAY WE
WILL WAKE UP AND DONALD TRUMP
WILL NOT BE PRESIDENT . BUT MOST
OF WHAT THESE CANDIDATES FOCUS
ON IS THEIR OWN IDEAS. YOU HEAR
THEM TALKING ABOUT CLIMATE
CHANGE AND YOU HEAR THEM TALKING
ABOUT COLLEGE TUITION AND YOU
HEAR THEM TALKING ABOUT
HEALTHCARE. I THINK ONE OF THE
REASONS FOR THAT IS IF YOU
LOOK AT IOWA IN 2010, VOTERS
REALLY WANTED TO HEAR THOSE
THINGS. THE DEMOCRATIC
CANDIDATES WHO PICKED UP
CONGRESSIONAL SEATS IN 2018 DID
NOT TALK TRUMP A WHOLE LOT. THEY
TALKED ABOUT VOCATIONAL
EDUCATION AND THEY TALKED ABOUT
HEALTHCARE. THOSE CANDIDATES DID
REALLY WELL. I THINK THE DOG
CREDIT ELECTRIC CARE ABOUT
BEATING TRUMP THEY ARE LOOKING
FOR CANDIDATES WHO CAN DO THAT
BUT THEY ARE HUNGRY TO HEAR
ABOUT ISSUES AND THEY WANT TO
YOUR POLICIES.
>> HOW POWERFUL ARE THOSE 2018
CONGRESSIONAL CANDIDATE WINNERS?
AS THEY'VE BEEN ON THE TRAIL A
LITTLE BIT BOTH IN TERMS OF SORT
OF SHARING THEIR INSIGHTS AND
WISDOM OF WHAT HELP THEM WIN AND
ALSO IN TERMS OF WHO THEY ARE
SUPPORTING.
>> THOSE ENDORSEMENTS AREN'T
IMPORTANT I DON'T THINK THEY ARE
DECISIVE. VOTERS ARE MAKING UP
THEIR OWN MINDS.
I THINK AS OPPOSED TO JUST
LOOKING TO SEE WHAT THEIR
ELECTED OFFICIALS HAVE TO SAY.
BUT I THINK THE EXAMPLE SET BY
THOSE VICTORIES IS IMPORTANT. IT
DOES SEND A MESSAGE ABOUT THE
KIND OF POLITICS THAT ARE
RESONATING IN IOWA. IN 2018,
CONGRESSIONAL CANDIDATES MADE
APPEALS TO ANTI-IMMIGRATION
SENTIMENT THEY RAN
ADVERTISEMENTS ABOUT THE WALL ON
THE REPUBLICAN SIDE. THAT JUST
FELL FLAT. THE ISSUES THAT WERE
IN THOSE RACES WERE
BREAD-AND-BUTTER ISSUES.
>> THERE IS THE QUESTION OF WHAT
HAS HAPPENED IN THE PAST NOT
REALLY TWO YEARS SINCE THEN. YOU
GET THE SENSE THERE IS MORE
MOVEMENT IN TERMS OF HOW ARE
THOSE CANDIDATES, THOSE PEOPLE
IN OFFICE DOING AND POLLING NOW
THAT THEY'VE BEEN AROUND
EXCEPT NOW. THEY HAVE
REMAINED POPULAR. I'M NOT
EXPECTING ANY TROUBLE WITH THOSE
RACES IN 2020.
>> THANK YOU. PROFESSOR PETER
HANSEN. THANK YOU SO MUCH EUGENE
SCOTT AND OUR GUEST AND JAMES
HOMAN. STAY WITH US
>>> CAUCUS NIGHT COMES AROUND
AND GEORGE H.W.
BUSH BEATS REAGAN BY SIX
PERCENTAGE POINTS AND THERE IS A
MEDIA FRENZY ABOUT THIS. IT
TURNS OUT THAT THERE WERE A TON
OF COMPUTER PROBLEMS AND A
NUMBER OF THE PRECINCTS IN IOWA
ACTUALLY HAD NOT REGISTERED ANY
OF THEIR VOTES AND A LOT OF
THOSE WERE PRECINCTS THAT WERE
FAVORED FOR REAGAN AND WE SAW A
SIMILAR PROBLEM IN 2012 WHEN ON
CAUCUS NIGHT ROMNEY WAS DECLARED
THE WINNER AND DAYS LATER THE
GOP HAD TO COME OUT AND SAY
ACTUALLY THERE HAD BEEN SOME
COUNTING MISTAKES AND RICK
SANTORUM WAS THE ACTUAL VICTOR
IN IOWA.
>>> DONALD TRUMP DOESN'T WANT ME
TO BE THE NOMINEE.
>> WE NEED A MASS POLITICAL
MOVEMENT, NOT JUST TO GO TO
WASHINGTON BUT TO CHANGE IT
BEFORE IT IS TOO LATE.
>> I KNOW WHAT IS BROKEN IN THIS
COUNTRY. I KNOW HOW TO
FIX IT.
>> THE STAKES COULD NOT BE
HIGHER.
>> WE HAVE TO WIN.
>> I HAVE THAT EXPERIENCE OF
WINNING IN RED AND PURPLE AND
RIGHT
BLUE AREAS.
>> WELCOME BACK. IF YOU ARE
JOINING US WE ARE LIVE FROM THE
DES MOINES IOWA
EVENT CENTER, 11 PM IN
WASHINGTON DC IN 10:00 P.M. IN
IOWA AND WAITING FOR RESULTS
FROM PRECINCTS ACROSS THE STATE.
WE ARE WATCHING IT CLOSELY THE
EVENTS AND THE ELECTION TEAM IS
WAITING WITH BAITED BREATH TO
HAVE RESULTS SO WHATEVER YOU'RE
WATCHING PLEASE MAKE SURE TO
SUBSCRIBE TO THE WASHINGTON POST
AND TAKE A MOMENT AND CLICK THE
SUBSCRIBE BUTTON AND WE WILL
BRING YOU UPDATES THROUGHOUT THE
NIGHT. ROLL ALONG WITH ME THIS
EVENING MY HAVE JAMES AND EUGENE
AND NOW JOINING US THE DIRECTOR
OF THE CENTER FOR THE AMERICAN
POLITICS AT DENVER UNIVERSITY
AND THANK YOU FOR BEING HERE.
YOU READY CAUCUS TONIGHT FOR
YOUR FIRST TIME AND WHAT WAS THE
EXPERIENCE LIKE FOR YOU?
WHAT SURPRISED
YOU AND WHAT STOOD OUT?
>> IT MOVED VERY FAST. YOU HAD A
LOT OF INTENSE DEMOCRACY GOING
ON WITHIN 15 MINUTES AND IT WAS
GREAT TO SEE. ONE OF THE THINGS
THAT INTERESTED ME AS YOU HAVE A
COMBINATION OF PEOPLE'S REALLY
SINCERE PREFERENCES ON THE FIRST
VOTE, BUT THEN ALL OF A SUDDEN
THERE IS A LOT OF STRATEGY THAT
GOES ON AND PEOPLE THINK WHAT
MAKES OUR SIDE LOOK BETTER AND
CAN WE MOVE PEOPLE TO ANOTHER
SIDE. I WAS SURPRISED THAT FOR
EXAMPLE IN OUR PRECINCT AMY
KLOBUCHAR WAS VIABLE IN THE
FIRST ROUND AND
ELIZABETH WARNS TEAM FELL SHORT
OF THAT. THEY WERE ASKING FOR
OTHER PEOPLE TO JOIN THEM AND NO
ONE WOULD DO THAT AND
HE WAS SHE WAS DECLARED UNVIABLE
AND THEY SCATTERED TO SOME OF
THE OTHER TEAMS AND THERE WAS A
LOT OF INTENSE THINGS GOING ON
AND PEOPLE WINNING SOME
SUPPORTERS TO THEIR SIDE.
>> IF YOU'RE WATCHING EARLIER
YOU HEARD HIM TALK ABOUT THAT
SAME SCENARIO AND NOT A TREND IN
YOUR AT THE SAME CAUCUS EVENT SO
THIS
IS HOW ALL OF IOWA IS GOING TO
MAKE AND READ INTO IT YOU ARE AT
THE SAME PLACE. AS WE HEARD FROM
THE PROFESSOR, I LOVE THIS IDEA
OF INTENSE DEMOCRACY AND THE
GUTS AND ALL BEING SPELLED OUT
IN THE PUBLIC EYE. TALK TO US
ABOUT WHAT IS SO FASCINATING
ABOUT THE CAUCUS AND PEOPLE
TUNING IN AND UNIQUE FOR
THAT TONIGHT.
>> ONE OF THE THINGS THAT IS
FASCINATING ABOUT TONIGHT IS
ALSO ONE OF THE THINGS THAT
MAKES IT CONTROVERSIAL, THE FACT
THAT
IT IS A CAUCUS AND NOT A PRIMARY
THAT PEOPLE DO SOME TYPE OF
POLITICKING AND NEGOTIATING TO
FIGURE OUT WHO IT IS THAT WILL
DO THE BEST AT THESE GATHERINGS
AND A WAY THAT DOES NOT HAPPEN
AT A PRIMARY.
YOU KNOW, THOSE RESPONSES, THE
RESULTS CAN BE ALL OVER THE
PLACE AND SOME PEOPLE LEAD
IMMEDIATELY AND
SOME PEOPLE PICK SOMEBODY ON
PAPER WHO SEEMS DIFFERENT THAN
THEIR FIRST CHOICE AND SOME
PEOPLE ARE STILL TRYING TO
FIGURE IT OUT AND THAT IS WHAT
WE SAW ON THE EXAMPLE AT DRAKE
UNIVERSITY EARLIER IN THE NIGHT.
SO TALKING ABOUT HOW SOME OF
THEM CAN MOVE SO QUICKLY AND
OTHERS CAN STILL BE INVOLVED IN
THE NEGOTIATING PROCESS, IT
IS FASCINATING FOR THOSE
INDIVIDUALS AND OTHER STATES IN
AMERICA WHO ALREADY KNOW WHO
THEY WANT AND ARE NOT BATTLING
BETWEEN A FEW PEOPLE.
>> THE DIFFERENCE BETWEEN
GOING INTO A BOOTH AND CHOOSING
A CANDIDATE, IT IS SUCH A
DIFFERENT EXPERIENCE. DO YOU GET
A SENSE THAT IT
BRINGS OUT DIFFERENT THOUGHTS
AND VOTERS OUR FEELINGS? YOU ARE
BEING PUT ON THE LINE PUBLICLY
TO SUPPORT A CANDIDATE AND ALSO
BEING MOVED SOMETIMES BY YOUR
FRIENDS AND NEIGHBORS AND ALSO A
PERFORMATIVE ELEMENT.
>> QUITE
A BIT. THERE IS A LOT GOING ON.
IT IS INTENSE. I GUESS WHETHER
YOU THINK THAT IS GOOD OR BAD
DEPENDS ON WHAT YOU THINK IS THE
PURPOSE OF THIS IN SELECTING
A NOMINEE AND 50 OR 100 YEARS
AGO SELECTING PRESIDENTIAL
NOMINEES WAS MOSTLY DONE IN
CONVENTIONS AND THERE YOU HAVE A
LOT OF HORSE TRADING AND A LOT
OF HAGGLING OVER CANDIDATES AND
ARGUING WITH PEOPLE OVER WHO IS
BEST
FOR WHAT REASONS AND WHO
REPRESENTS WHAT PARTY THE BEST
AND THE MOVED TO PRIMARIES MADE
IT A VERY PERSONAL AND PRIVATE
DECISION FOR VOTERS SO THERE
CAN'T BE AS MUCH
OF THAT CONVERSATION OF WHO
WOULD BE BEST BUT SIMPLY WHO IS
YOUR BEST PREFERENCE ON THE
CAUCUS MAYBE SOMEWHERE IN
BETWEEN WHERE YOU DO HAVE THE
PRIVATE SIDE OF THINGS BUT YOU
ALSO HAVE SOME OF THE
NEGOTIATIONS GOING ON AS WELL.
>> OUR COLLEAGUES ACROSS TOWN AT
DRAKE UNIVERSITY SO LET'S GO TO
HANNAH LIVE.
>> WE ARE ACROSS THE CAMPUS OF
DRAKE AND LOOKED IT OVER FROM
THE CAUCUS TO THE JOE BIDEN
WATCH PARTY AND I AM HERE WITH
MY COLLEAGUE WHO HAS BEEN IN THE
ROOM FOR A FEW HOURS AND WHAT IS
THE MOOD IN THIS WHILE WE WAIT
FOR RESULTS. YOU HAVE BEEN
TALKING TO PEOPLE AND WHAT IF
YOU HEARD.
>> THERE IS ALL THIS TREPIDATION
AND SOME OF THE PEOPLE HAVE BEEN
JOE BIDEN SUPPORTERS FOR DECADES
AND MANY OF THEM HAVE DEDICATED
THE LAST FEW MONTHS OF THEIR
LIVES TO JOE BOYD, BIDEN AND
THEY ARE HEALED, HERE AND
THEY ARE
ASKING ME YOU ARE REPORTER AND
WHAT IS GOING ON AND WHAT IS
TAKING SO LONG AND I WANT TO
KNOW AND SOME FOLKS HAVE BEEN AT
PRECINCTS WHERE BIDEN DID NOT DO
AS WELL AS THEY HOPED HE WOULD
DO AND THEY ARE WONDERING IF
ACROSS THE STATE THAT IS ALSO
THE CASE AND THEY JUST WANT TO
KNOW.'S EQUITY THINK THE BIDEN
CAMPAIGN DID WRITE IN IOWA OR
NOT RIGHT?
>> I WANT OFFER ANY CRITIQUES
FOR THE BIDEN CAMPAIGN BUT I
WILL SAY HE SEIZED THE MOMENT
AFTER THE INCIDENT IN IRAN AND
REALLY PLAYING
UP HIS FOREIGN POLICY
CREDENTIALS. YEAR PERIOD WERE A
LOT OF VOTERS WERE CONCERNED
ABOUT WHAT IS HAPPENING IN THE
WORLD. AND BIDEN DIDN'T OFFER
ANY PARTICULAR POLICY
PRESCRIPTIONS OR WHATEVER,
BUT HE DID PLAY UP THE FACT THAT
HE HAS THE MOST EXPERIENCE OF
REALLY ANYBODY ON THE FIELD.
>> WE HEAR A LOT ABOUT IOWA AND
WHAT WOULD IT MEAN FOR THE BIDEN
CAMPAIGN IF HE CAME
FORWARD TONIGHT?
>> IT DEPENDS ON
WHO YOU ASK. ON ONE HAND THE
CAMPAIGN HAS DOWNPLAYED IOWA AND
THEY SAY HIS TREND IS AMONG
AFRICAN-AMERICAN VOTERS AND THEY
SAY SOUTH CAROLINA'S A FIREWALL
AND SOMETIMES HE USES THAT WORD
AND ON THE OTHER HAND HE IS A
VICE PRESIDENT AND LEADING IN A
LOT OF STATES THE VERY BEGINNING
SO IF HE GETS SHELLACKED OR
EATEN BADLY, IT IS OBVIOUSLY
GOING TO LOOK BAD IN THE
QUESTION IS CAN HE HOLD ON OR
DOES THAT SEND A RIPPLE EFFECT
OR IMPACT ON FUTURE STATES OR ON
SOUTH CAROLINA OR SUPER TUESDAY
STATES WHERE HE HAS THAT AND
DOES THAT DESCENT DECLINE
BECAUSE OF HOW HE DOES HERE.
>> YOU SPOKE TO BIDEN SUPPORTERS
WERE CAUCUSES WERE PERHAPS WAS
IN BIBLE AND YOU GET A SENSE OF
WHERE THEY WENT IN THE SECOND
ROUND?
>> ALL OVER THE PLACE. THERE WAS
NO ONE SPECIFIC CANDIDATE AND
THERE WAS TALK EARLIER THAT HE
HAD CONTACTED THE
YANG CAMPAIGN LIKE IF MY VOTE
AND I AM NOT VIABLE WE WILL GO
TO YOU BUT I DID NOT GET A SENSE
THERE WAS ANYTHING ORGANIZED AT
THE PRECINCTS OF THE HANDFUL OF
PRECINCTS THAT I SPOKE WITH AND
THEY SAID BIDEN DID NOT GET IT
AND WE ARE GOING HERE.
>> SOWS THAT PERHAPS FOR THE
LACK OF ORGANIZATION AMONG THE
PRECINCTS IN THE CAPTAINS HAVE A
STRATEGY OR IS IT UNCLEAR? BACK
BIDEN HIMSELF HAS SAID THAT HE
HAS NOT
ENGAGED IN THIS KIND OF CALL FOR
PEOPLE TO GO TO DIFFERENT
CAMPAIGNS OR TO SWAP DELEGATES
OR WHATEVER. SO IT IS UNCLEAR
AND IF HE SAYS THAT AND IT IS
MUDDLED AT THE TOP IT IS UNCLEAR
IF IT TRICKLES DOWN TO THE
INDIVIDUAL -- IF THAT LEVEL OF
ORGANIZATION IS THERE. WE DON'T
HAVE THE FULL DETAILS ON THE
AMOUNT OF ORGANIZATION THERE.
>> WHO IS THE
MOST PASSIONATE BIDEN SUPPORTER
YOU SPOKE TO IN THE ROOM
TONIGHT?
>> I SPOKE TO A GUY THAT WAS SO
PASSIONATE ABOUT JOE BIDEN THAT
HE PRINTED OUT SPEAKING TIPS.
LIKE HE GOT THE GETTYSBURG
ADDRESS AND HOW TO MAKE YOUR
POINT BETTER AND ALL OF
THE STUFF. IT IS LIKE THIS
THICK.
>> SPEAKING TIPS FOR BIDEN?
>> YES. BECAUSE HE HAS A HISTORY
OF AS A GAP PRONE
POLITICIAN WHO STRUGGLES IN THAT
AVENUE AND THE SKY WAS LIKE I
REALLY SUPPORT HIM AND I WANT TO
HELP. AND HE POINTED OUT ALL OF
THESE INDIVIDUAL THINGS JUST
LIKE YOU WOULD PRINT OUT TO LIKE
A HIGH SCHOOL DEBATE STUDENT AND
SENT THEM OUT TO THE CAMPAIGN.
IN FACT, HE EMAILED IT TO ME AND
HE SAID HERE IS WHAT I SENT
BIDEN. SO A LOT OF PEOPLE IN
THIS ROOM ARE EXTREMELY 100%
RIDE OR DIE FOR JOE BIDEN AND
THEIR MOTIONS WILL GO UP AND
DOWN BASED ON WHAT GOES UP ON
THAT SCREEN OVER THERE.
>> I AM EXPECTING ANY MOMENT WE
WILL HEAR A ROAR OF RESULTS AND
THEY MAY COME UP BEHIND US. SO I
FEEL LIKE THERE ARE OTHER
STORIES OF PEOPLE YOU'RE
SPEAKING WITH TONIGHT.
>> WHAT IS ALSO SURPRISING
IS THAT
IOWA TRACKS A LOT OF POLITICAL
STORIES AND NOT JUST PEOPLE WHO
HAVE COME FROM A CAUCUS AND
SUPPORT JOE BIDEN. I MET A
FAMILY THAT IS FROM ATLANTA AND
I SAID WHY ARE YOU HERE AND THEY
SAID WE JUST WANTED TO BE HERE.
SO THERE ARE SOME FOLKS THAT
WERE PRECINCT CAPTAINS AND CAME
OVER TO HOPEFULLY BE PART OF A
VICTORY PARTY AND OTHERS THAT
ARE JUST HERE BECAUSE THEY ENJOY
THE THEATER OF IT ALL AND ARE
EXCITED TO BE APPROACHED BY A
REPORTER AND WAX PHILOSOPHICALLY
BUT EVERYBODY IS ON PINS OR
HOOKS.
>> HOW TOUGH IS BIDEN'S PATH
GOING FORWARD FROM HERE? THAT WE
ARE ALL ON A FLIGHT IT TO A
CLOCK A.M. TO NEW HAMPSHIRE AND
THE CHARTER FLIGHT IS BOOKED AND
WE ARE ALL THERE. JOE BIDEN HAS
DOWNPLAYED NEW HAMPSHIRE. NUMBER
ONE BECAUSE BERNIE SANDERS
AND WORN
ARE FROM NEIGHBORING STATES AND
THEY HAVE A BUILT-IN ADVANTAGE
BUT
BECAUSE BIDEN SAYS HIS STRENGTH
IS IN THE AFRICAN-AMERICAN
COMMUNITY IN THE SOUTH AND ALL
THIS STUFF SO EVEN IF JOE BIDEN
DOESN'T DO PARTICULARLY WELL
HERE, HE HAS SIGNALED HE WILL GO
ON IT LISA SOUTH CAROLINA. THE
HARD PART ABOUT THAT IS THESE
THINGS COST MONEY. SO IF HE DOES
NOT DO PARTICULARLY WELL HERE,
WHAT HAPPENS TO HIS FUNDRAISERS?
TO THEY BEGAN TO HAVE DOUBTS OR
THINK MAYBE I SHOULD NOT INVEST
IN THIS CANDIDATE AND GIVE MY
MONEY ELSEWHERE. I GUESS THE
VOTERS ARE NOT THE ONLY ONE ON
PINS AND HOOKS AND I AM TRYING
TO SEE WHAT
HAPPENED SO WE KNOW ALL OF THIS
STUFF GOING FORWARD.
>> OTHER FUNDRAISERS IN THE
ROOM?
>> I HAVE NOT MET ANY. IF I DO I
WILL LET
YOU KNOW.
>> LIKE THE CHECKBOOK IN THE PEN
IF THEY ARE READY.
>> I EXPECT THE MOST OF THE
PEOPLE AT THE TOP OF THE
CAMPAIGN AND THE FUNDRAISING
WILL COME OUT AS TIME GOES ON
AND LITERALLY PEOPLE WHO CAME
FROM CAUCUSES WHO WANTED TO GET
A GOOD SEAT AND GET A GOOD SPOT
CLOSE TO THE CANDIDATE AND AS
TIME GOES ON YOU WILL START TO
SEE THE DEMOCRATIC CELEBRITIES
AND PEOPLE FROM THE
CAMPAIGN AND WHEN WE HAVE A
SENSE OF WHEN BIDEN WILL COME
OUT.
>> A LOT OF GREAT INFORMATION
AND WE WILL GO BACK TO FOR NOW.
>> THANK YOU SO MUCH. IF YOU
HAVE BEEN WAITING TO SEE WHAT
HAPPENS LIKE WE HAVE HAD WE HAD
SOME NEWS ON THAT FRONT. THREE
HOURS AFTER IOWANS BEGAN
CAUCUSING THERE
ARE NO OFFICIAL RESULTS FROM THE
IOWA DEMOCRATIC PARTY. THE
ISSUED A STATEMENT AND I WILL
READ IT TO YOU. WE HAVE
EXPERIENCED A DELAY IN THE
RESULTS DUE TO QUALITY CHECKS
AND THE FACT THAT THE IDP IS
REPORTING OUT THREE DATASETS FOR
THE FIRST TIME. WHAT WE KNOW
RIGHT NOW IS THAT AROUND 25% OF
PRECINCTS HAVE REPORTED AND
EARLY DATA INDICATE TURNOUT IS
ON PACE FOR 2016 AND AGAIN IT
WAS A STATEMENT FROM IOWA
DEMOCRATIC PARTY SPOKESMAN MANDY
McCLURE AND WE ARE WATCHING AND
WAITING FOR THESE RESULTS TO
COME
IN. LET'S GO OVER THESE THREE
DATA POINTS AND THREE DATASETS.
THE BIG QUESTION WAS WOULD WE
FIND OUT FIRST ALIGNMENT OR
PEOPLE'S FIRST CHOICE AND THEN
GO THROUGH AROUND AND FIND OUT
THEIR SECOND CHOICE AND THEN
FIND OUT THE DELEGATE COUNT BUT
INSTEAD WE ARE GETTING THAT
INFORMATION ALL AT ONCE FROM
EACH PRECINCT.
>> 25% AND IS NOT THAT MUCH AND
WE ARE HERE REPORTS THAT THERE
IS AN APP, A NEW APP AND YOU
HAVE TO REMEMBER IN RURAL IOWA A
LOT OF THESE PEOPLE ARE LIKE
GRANDPARENTS AND WELL-MEANING
FOLKS WHO DON'T KNOW HOW TO USE
APPS AND THEIR JOB IS TO TYPE IN
ALL THIS DATA AND THEY HAVE ALSO
PUT IN PLACE IN A
GOOD WAY A LOT OF DOUBLE
VERIFICATION AND VARIOUS THINGS
TO PREVENT RUSSIAN INTERFERENCE
AND HACKING
AND PROTECT
THE INTEGRITY OF THE RESULTS. SO
THAT APP HAS CREATED APPARENTLY
SOME PROBLEMS WERE IT IS HARD
FOR PEOPLE TO USE IN THE DATA IS
NOT NECESSARILY COMING IN RIGHT
SO THAT IS PART OF WHY THERE IS
THIS QUALITY
CONTROL CHECK THAT ARE TAKING A
LONG TIME AND IT'S ONE OF THOSE
THINGS IN THIS COMES AGAINST THE
BACKDROP OF WE HAVE TALKED ABOUT
IOWA'S PLACE IN THE PROCESS AND
THE DEMOCRATS AND REPUBLICANS
ALL AGREE THAT THEY WANT TO
PROTECT
THE SANCTITY OF THE IOWA
CAUCUSES AND THEY ARE VERY
SENSITIVE TO TWO THINGS. ONE IS
THE DELAY AND THEY KNOW THIS
DELAY IS BAD FOR THEM AND THE
SECOND IS PUTTING OUT BAD DATA
AND THEY DON'T WANT PUT OUT BAD
NUMBERS THAT THEY WILL HAVE TO
WALK BACK AND I TALKED ABOUT IN
THE LAST HOUR THE MINUTE ROMNEY
RICK SANTORUM SITUATION IN THE
REPUBLICAN PARTY CHAIRMAN IN
2012 DIFFERENT PEOPLE THAT ARE
DOING IT TONIGHT AND HE DID LOSE
THAT CHAIRMANSHIP OVER THAT
BECAUSE PEOPLE WERE UPSET THAT
HE MISHANDLED IT FEKETE LOOK
LIKE MITT ROMNEY WAS THERE BUT
IT
WAS COMPLEX.
>> THEY DIDN'T WAIT UNTIL ALL
THE NUMBERS WERE AND SO THEY HAD
A LOT OF SENSITIVITY TO THAT,
BUT IT DOES MEAN THAT
THE DELAY IS THERE AND 25% TO
SUGGEST THERE IS STILL A LOT OF
RETURNS THAT WE ARE WAITING
FOR. BUT THE APP DOES MEAN WE
WILL BE ABLE TO HAVE A PRETTY
SOPHISTICATED UNDERSTANDING AND
THE DATA GUYS IN DC WILL BE ABLE
TO TELL US A LOT RIGHT AWAY ONCE
WE GET THOSE DATASETS.
>> EUGENE,
WE HEARD EARLIER THE IMPORTANCE
OF MOMENTUM COMING OUT OF IOWA
AND THERE REALLY IS NO MARGIN
FOR ERROR IN TERMS OF THE DATA
CRUNCHING BECAUSE SOMEBODY IS
SEEMING TO BE VICTORIOUS TONIGHT
AND IT TURNS OUT THE RESULTS ARE
WRONG FROM THIS CALCULATION A
LACK OF QUALITY CONTROL AND IT
COULD BE DEVASTATING TO A
CANDIDATE WHO IS
NOT TALLIED CORRECTLY OR SHOWN
TO DO AS WELL.
>> SURE. BECAUSE HEADLINES ARE
WRITTEN OFF OF THE RESULTS THAT
PEOPLE HAVE AND IF THOSE RESULTS
ARE WRONG YOU KNOW AND IT
DOESN'T BECOME CLEAR UNTIL DAYS
LATER THOSE ORIGINAL HEADLINES
WILL HAVE CYCLED THROUGH THE
NEWS AND GOTTEN
THE VOTERS AND MAYBE TO VOTERS
WHO DON'T REGULARLY CHECK IN AND
MAY NOT BE AROUND TO GET THE
CORRECT DATA HEADLINE AND THAT
CAN AFFECT HOW PEOPLE ARE
PERCEIVED IN NEVADA AND NEW
HAMPSHIRE AND SOUTH CAROLINA SO
IMPORTANT THAT THESE ARE
CORRECTED AND AS SOON AS
POSSIBLE. SEQUITURS THE
IMPORTANCE OF IOWA AND THE
BUILDING OF MOMENTUM? WE HEARD
HIM TALKING ABOUT THE BIDEN
CAMPAIGN AND WHAT THEIR FEARS
AND HOPES ARE BUT HOW IMPORTANT
IS IT TO DO WELL HERE? FEKETE IS
IMPORTANT TO DO WELL OR AT LEAST
NOT POORLY. THERE IS SO MUCH OF
AN EXPECTATION GAME BUILT INTO
IT AND CANDIDATES WHO ARE NOT
EXPECTED TO DO VERY WELL IF THEY
CAN SUDDENLY HAVE A GOOD NIGHT
AND WE DON'T KNOW YET WHAT IS
HAPPENED SO FAR BUT THAT HAS
HELPED AND CERTAINLY HELPED
PRESIDENT OBAMA WHEN HE FIRST
RAN IN 2008. HE CERTAINLY WAS A
TOP
CONTENDER BUT I THINK PEOPLE
EXPECTED HIM TO DO AS WELL AS HE
DID DURING THE IOWA CAUCUSES AND
THAT REALLY PROPELLED HIM AND A
LOT OF PEOPLE ENDORSED HIM WHO
HAD BEEN WEARY OF DOING SO
BEFORE THAT AND IN MANY WAYS
THAT VICTORY CEMENTED THE REST
OF HIS CAMPAIGN.
>> JAMES, NOT JUST US BUT THE
CAMPAIGNS ARE WAITING FOR THIS
INFORMATION TO
COME IN AND I WANT YOU TO BREAK
DOWN FOR US AND REMIND US FOR
PEOPLE TUNING THEM WHAT WE ARE
WATCHING IN TERMS OF RESULTS
BECAUSE THERE ARE THESE THREE
DATA POINTS THAT WE HEARD THE
DEMOCRATIC PARTY IS LAYING OUT
AND WE HAVE A LOT OF DATA TO GO
THROUGH AND WHAT ARE THE THREE
DATA POINTS?
>> THE FIRST ONE IS THE TOTALS
SO PEOPLE SHOULD UP THE CAUCUSES
IN THE BEGINNING OF THAT INTENSE
DEMOCRACY THAT WE'VE BEEN
TALKING ABOUT AND THEY GO IN IN
ONE QUARTER AND THAT WOULD COUNT
PEOPLE WHO SAID GO TO CAUCUS FOR
ANDREW YANG OR COREY BOOKER OR
EVEN THOUGH HE IS NOT IN THE
RACE ANYMORE AND YOU CAN STILL
CAUCUS FOR HIM AND THEIR NUMBERS
ALL GET COUNTED AND IT SORT OF
THE NUMBER OF PEOPLE WHO SHOW UP
AND THAT IS THE NUMBER THAT
BERNIE SANDERS IS EXPECTED TO DO
BEST WITH BECAUSE HE HAS HIS
BASE THAT IS DISTINCT AND HE CAN
GET PEOPLE TO SHOW UP AND THE
SECOND NUMBER IS THE RAW
DELEGATE A LOT AND AND THAT IS
BASED ON A FORMULA THAT DEPENDS
ON HOW MANY PEOPLE HAVE TURNED
OUT TO THE SAME PRECINCT AND
PRIOR CAUCUSES AND ESSENTIALLY
THAT IS WHAT IT'S WORKED OUT
AFTER EVERYONE IS DONE THAT SO
THE PEOPLE WHO ARE NOT VIABLE
ENOUGH FOOD DON'T HAVE 50% OF
THEIR SUPPORTERS HAVE TO GO FIND
SOMEONE ELSE SO THEY CAN LEAVE
OR WHATEVER BUT THAT IS WHAT
HAPPENS AFTER THIS SORT AND THE
ONLY REALLY THAT ONE TIME AND
THEN THE THIRD NUMBER IS TOTAL
DELEGATES. THAT IS 40
ODD DELEGATES AT THE DEMOCRATIC
CONVENTION AND AS DAVE WEIGLE
SAID A FEW MINUTES AGO THIS
COULD BE THE FIRST TIME EVER
THAT FIVE
DIFFERENT DEMOCRATIC CANDIDATES
COME OUT WITH THE DELEGATE FROM
IOWA AND LET'S GO HERE AMY
KLOBUCHAR NOW ADDRESSING THE
CROWD.
>> THANK YOU, ANDY BECAUSE I
HAVE THE SAME ANY STUCK WITH US
ALL THE TIME AND NUMBER THREE
BECAUSE MY HUSBAND AND DAUGHTER
ARE HERE TONIGHT. AND I WANT TO
THINK THEM AND OUR TIRELESS
FUEL OR, FIELD ORGANIZERS AND
THE UNSTOPPABLE VOLUNTEERS WHO
HAVE NEVER GIVEN UP AND WE ARE
FEELING SO GOOD TONIGHT AND
I CAN'T WAIT SOMEHOW SOMEWAY I
WILL GET ON A PLANE TONIGHT TO
NEW HAMPSHIRE AND WE ARE
BRINGING THIS TICKET TO NEW
HAMPSHIRE. SO EVEN IN A CROWDED
FIELD OF CANDIDATES AND EVEN
DURING THE WELL EARNED
IMPEACHMENT HEARING OF DONALD J
TRUMP WHICH
KEPT ME BOLTED TO MY SENATE DESK
FOR THE LAST TWO WEEKS WE KEPT
FIGHTING AND YOU KEPT FIGHTING
FOR ME AND WE HAVE STARTED IN A
BLIZZARD AND A LOT OF PEOPLE
DIDN'T PREDICT I WOULD FINISH
THAT SPEECH AND THEY THOUGHT HOW
COULD SHE DO IT AND IN THE
SUMMER THEY SAID WILL SHE MAKE
IT THROUGH THE SUMMER AND THEN
DEBATE AFTER DEBATE AFTER DEBATE
AND ALL I CAN SAY IS WE ARE HERE
AND WE ARE STRONG. WITH THAT
SAME GRID THAT GOT US THROUGH
THAT BLIZZARD, WE ARE NOW READY
TO HEAD TO NEW HAMPSHIRE AND MY
FRIENDS HERE IN IOWA YOU KNOW WE
HAVE
BEATEN THE ODDS EVERY STEP OF
THE WAY AND WE HAVE DONE IT ON
THE MERIT AND WITH IDEAS AND
HARD WORK THANK YOU. WE KNOW IN
OUR HEARTS IN A DEMOCRACY IT IS
NOT ABOUT THE LOUDEST VOICE OR
THE BIGGEST BANK ACCOUNT. IT IS
ABOUT THE BEST IDEAS AND ABOUT
THE PERSON THAT CAN TURN THOSE
IDEAS INTO ACTION. WE KNOW THAT
OUR PARTY CAN'T WIN BIG BY
TRYING TO OUT DIVIDE THE DIVIDER
IN CHIEF WE KNOW THAT WE WIN BY
BRINGING PEOPLE WITH US INSTEAD
OF SHUTTING PEOPLE OUT. DONALD
TRUMP'S WORST NIGHTMARE IS THAT
THE PEOPLE IN THE MIDDLE, PEOPLE
WHO HAVE HAD ENOUGH OF THE
NAME-CALLING AND THE MUDSLINGING
HAVE A CANDIDATE TO VOTE FOR IN
NOVEMBER. DONALD TRUMP'S WORST
NIGHTMARE IS THAT THE FIRED UP
DEMOCRATS WILL MARCH TO VICTORY
ALONGSIDE A BIG COALITION OF
INDEPENDENCE AND MODERATE
REPUBLICANS THAT SEE THE
SELECTION JUST AS WE DO AND THE
SELECTION IS AN ECONOMIC CHECK
BUT ALSO A PATRIOTIC CHECK. IT
IS A DECENCY CHECK AND IT IS
THIS
SIMPLE IDEA THAT THE HEART
OF AMERICA, IS SO MUCH BIGGER
THAN THE HEART OF THIS GUY IN
THE WHITE HOUSE. ARE COUNTRY
CAN'T TAKE ANOTHER FOUR YEARS OF
DONALD TRUMP AND OUR COLLECTIVE
SENSE OF DECENCY CAN'T TAKE
ANOTHER FOUR YEARS. THE RULE OF
LAW CAN'T WITHSTAND ANOTHER FOUR
YEARS
OF PRESIDENT THAT THINKS HE IS
ABOVE IT. OUR DEMOCRACY
CAN'T TOLERATE ANOTHER FOUR
YEARS OF A PRESIDENT WHO WANTS
TO BULLDOZE RIGHT THROUGH IT.
THE AMERICAN DREAM CAN'T TAKE
ANOTHER FOUR YEARS OF PRESIDENT
WHO THINKS HE CAN CHOOSE WHO
GETS IT.
HIS PLAYBOOK IS NOT HARD TO
UNDERSTAND. IT IS REALLY THREE
WORDS. DIVIDE AND DEMORALIZE. I
HAVE A PLAYBOOK THAT IS THREE
WORDS. UNITE
AND LEAD. THAT IS HOW I HAVE
PASSED OVER 100 BILLS AS THE
LEAD DEMOCRAT IN THE UNITED
STATES SENATE IN THE MIDDLE
OF THAT GRIDLOCK AND THAT IS AND
HOW I HAVE WON ELECTIONS IN THE
REDDEST OF RED CONGRESSIONAL
DISTRICTS AND THE BLUEST OF BLUE
CONGRESSIONAL DISTRICTS. THE
PRESIDENT, HE MAY AS WELL HAVE A
SIGN ON HIS DESK
THAT SAYS THE BUCK STOPS
ANYWHERE BUT HERE AND LOOK AT
WHAT HE HAS DONE. HE BLAMES
EVERYONE FOR OUR PROBLEMS. HE
BLAMES EVERYONE, PEOPLE THAT
SHOULD NOT BE BLAMED. HE BLAMES
IMMIGRANTS AND HE BLAMES BARACK
OBAMA. HE BLAMES THE FEDERAL
CHAIR THAT HE NOMINATED AND THE
ENERGY SECRETARY THAT HE
APPOINTED AND THE GENERALS THAT
HE COMMANDS AND YES THE KING
OF DENMARK. HE EVEN RECENTLY
BLAMED
JUSTIN TRUDEAU FOR CUTTING HIM
OUT OF THE CANADIAN VERSION OF
HOME ALONE TOO. WHO DOES THAT?
WHO DOES THAT? WELL, LET ME TELL
YOU WHAT I WILL DO. WHEN I AM
BEHIND THAT DESK, I WILL TAKE
RESPONSIBILITY INSTEAD OF
PASSING IT ON. I WILL REACH
ACROSS THE AISLE AND WORK WITH
AMERICANS IN GOOD FAITH INSTEAD
OF
PICKING FIGHTS. I WILL BRING
THIS COUNTRY TOGETHER INSTEAD OF
PUSHING IT APART. SOME OF YOU
MAY KNOW THAT OLD STORY OF ABOUT
FRANKLIN DELANO ROOSEVELT. IT
WAS A STORY ABOUT HOW AFTER HE
DIED THEY PUT HIS BODY ON A
TRAIN
AND IT WORKED ITS WAY TO
WASHINGTON DC. AND THERE IS A
STORY OF A REPORTER WHO CAME
UPON A MAN WHO WAS CRYING BY THE
SIDE OF THOSE TRACKS AND THE MAN
HAD HIS HAT ON HIS CHEST AND HE
WAS SOBBING AND THE REPORTER
LOOKED AT HIM AND SAID, SIR, DID
YOU KNOW PRESIDENT ROOSEVELT?
DID YOU KNOW HIM? AND THE MAN
SAID NO. I DID NOT KNOW
PRESIDENT ROOSEVELT, BUT HE KNEW
ME. HE KNEW ME. AND WHAT ARE WE
MISSING SO MUCH RIGHT NOW IN OUR
COUNTRY IS THAT SENSE OF
EMPATHY. WE ARE MISSING THAT
CARING. I PROMISE YOU THIS. I
WILL BRING BACK THAT SACRED
TRUST BETWEEN THE AMERICAN
PEOPLE AND THE PRESIDENT OF THE
UNITED STATES. SO IF YOU ARE
SICK AND TIRED OF HEARING HOW
GREAT THE ECONOMY IS WHEN YOU
DON'T FEEL IT AND WHEN YOUR
PAYCHECK IS STRETCHED TO THE
BREAKING POINT MONTH AFTER
MONTH. I KNOW YOU AND I WILL
FIGHT
FOR YOU. IF YOU ARE SICK OF
CHOOSING BETWEEN PAYING FOR
DAYCARE FOR YOUR KIDS AND LONG
TERM CARE FOR YOUR PARENTS, I
KNOW YOU, AND I WILL FIGHT FOR
YOU. IF YOU ARE
SICK OF BEING TORN BETWEEN
FILLING THE REFRIGERATOR AND
FILLING A PRESCRIPTION, I KNOW
YOU, AND I WILL FIGHT FOR YOU.
AND IF YOU WANT A DEMOCRATIC
NOMINEE WHO CAN
MAKE OUR TENTS BIGGER AND OUR
COALITION WIDER AND OUR
COATTAILS LONGER, --
>> AMY, AMY.
AMY. AMY.
>> IF YOU WANT THAT, I KNOW YOU,
AND I WILL FIGHT FOR YOU. AND IF
YOU ARE SICK AND TIRED OF THE
EXTREMES IN
OUR POLITICS AND THE NOISE AND
NONSENSE, YOU HAVE A HOME WITH
ME. SO PLEASE JOIN OUR CAMPAIGN
AND
JOIN
US BECAUSE WE ARE GOING TO BE
HERE IT LOOKS LIKE A REALLY LONG
TIME TONIGHT, AND YOU WILL HAVE
PLENTY OF TIME TO JOIN US AT MY
WEBSITE.
SO LET'S STAY UP AND LET'S STAY
IN GOOD SPIRITS BECAUSE YOU ALL
KNOW WHAT HAPPENED OUT THERE IN
THOSE PRECINCTS. YOU KNOW WE
HAVE BEEN PUNCHING WAY BEYOND
OUR WAY AND YOU KNOW
THAT DESPITE SOME LIMITED
RESOURCES COMPARED TO SOME OF
THOSE BIGGER BANK ACCOUNTS WE
ARE WAY ON THE BOARD SO LET'S
STAY UP AND LET'S
STAY HAPPY AND HAD TO NEW
HAMPSHIRE. THANK YOU, IOWA. I
LOVE YOU.
>>
AMY KLOBUCHAR CLAIMING ONE OF
THOSE COVETED TICKETS OUT OF
IOWA BUT LET'S GET SOME CONTEXT.
WE HAVE GOTTEN WORD FROM THE
DEMOCRATIC PARTY THAT THERE IS A
DELAY IN THE RESULTS AND THEY
SAY IT IS A QUALITY CONTROL AND
MAKING SURE THEY ARE CORRECT AND
THEY'RE USING A NEW SYSTEM OF
USING THREE DATA POINTS THIS
YEAR SO NOT ALLOWED OF TALLIES
IN AND WE ARE WAITING FOR
RESULTS AND AS AMY KLOBUCHAR
SAID IT WILL BE A LONG
NIGHT AND A PITCH AND CALL FOR
PEOPLE TO SUPPORT HER AND LET'S
GO TO MY COLLEAGUES
HERE AND SHE IS SEIZING THIS
MOMENT BUT LET'S BE CLEAR, SHE
HAS NOT BEEN DECLARED THE WINNER
OF THE IOWA CAUCUS.
>> IT IS. THERE FEELING GOOD.
THE CAMPAIGN IS FEELING -- WE
HEARD FROM SOME OF THESE
CAUCUSES THAT THEY FEEL LIKE
THEY'RE GETTING GOOD REPORTS
FROM THE PRECINCTS WHERE THEY
HAVE THEIR PEOPLE AND THEY ARE
NOT JUST DEPENDING ON THE
NUMBERS BEING SUBMITTED TO THE
APP BUT THEIR PEOPLE ARE ALSO
REPORTING THAT PROBABLY ON THEIR
OWN APP BUT THE NUMBERS THAT
THEY ARE SEEN DOESN'T MEAN THEY
ARE REALLY GOOD BUT THE
CLOVER CHART CAMPAIGN SAID THEY
WILL
CONTINUE BECAUSE AMY KLOBUCHAR
MORE THAN ANYONE ELSE HAS BEEN
TYPECAST AS THE IOWA CANDIDATE.
AND THE
THING ABOUT HER ISSUES THE
DAUGHTER OF A NEWSPAPER MAN AND
SHE TALKS ABOUT HER GRANDFATHER,
I AM SORRY, HER FATHER CALLED
THE 1960 PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION
FOR JOHN
F. KENNEDY.
SHE KIND OF HAS A MINDSET OF
WANTING TO BE ACCESSIBLE AND
PROBABLY THE MOST ACCESSIBLE OF
THE CANDIDATES. THIS WILL GET A
PICTURE ON THE FRONT PAGE OF THE
NEWSPAPERS THAT HAVE TO GO TO
PRINT AND IT WILL MAKE SURE THAT
SHE IS PART OF THE CONVERSATION
COMING OUT. IF JOE BIDEN IS
DOING POORLY, SHE IS THE MOST
POISED TO BENEFIT FROM THAT. I
THINK I SAW HER GIVE THE SAME
SPEECH OVER THE LAST FEW DAYS
AND THAT WAS A VERY ABRIDGED
VERSION OF IT AND IT WAS FUNNY
THAT SHE MENTIONED AND TOLD ME
THE OTHER DAY SHE WAS READING A
BOOK BY DORIS GOODWIN WHERE SHE
PICKED UP THAT FDR TIDBIT WE
HEARD WHERE SHE SAID I DIDN'T
KNOW HIM BUT HE KNEW ME AND SHE
SAW THAT WHEN SHE WAS BORED
DURING THE IMPEACHMENT AND ASHES
GOING TO THE BOOK AND SAW THE
ANECDOTE
AND SHE PUT THAT INTO HER
SPEECH.
>> WE ARE ALL WAITING FOR THESE
RESULTS TO COME IN AND THE
PERFECT TIMING TO GRAB THE
SPOTLIGHT AND TALK TO PEOPLE
ABOUT HOW YOU THINK YOU HAVE
DONE WELL THE NIGHT AND LET'S GO
BACK TO OUR ELECTION INSIGHT
TEAM IN DC AND JEREMY HAS BEEN
IN CONTACT WITH THE IOWA
DEMOCRAT TONIGHT AND WHAT ABOUT
TONIGHT STATEMENT CAUGHT
YOUR ATTENTION?
>> SOME OF THE THINGS OFF THE
TOP THAT WERE PRETTY OBVIOUS
MADE A LOT OF SENSE. WE HAVE NOT
SEEN ANY RESULTS
AND THE
IOWA DEMOCRATIC PARTY SAID THEY
ARE BEING CAREFUL TO MAKE SURE
THEY ARE GETTING EXACTLY WHAT
THEY WANT TO SEE IN THOSE
RESULTS. I CAN TELL YOU WITH A
LITTLE BIT OF INSIDER
INFORMATION THAT THESE ARE
USUALLY FAIRLY COMPLEX SYSTEMS
AND THEY HAVE TO DO CHECK TO
MAKE SURE THE VOTE TALLIES THEY
ARE GETTING MATCH THE KIND OF
RESULTS THAT SHOULD BE
ACCEPTABLE. SO I TOTALLY
UNDERSTAND THAT ESPECIALLY AS AN
ENGINEERING DIRECT HER IN
SOMETHING THAT MAKES SENSE TO ME
BUT I DO SAY THERE WAS SOMETHING
BURIED IN THE BOTTOM OF THAT
STATEMENT THAT DID NOT MAKE
SENSE UNTIL I STARTED TALKING
ABOUT FOLK SO THE THING THAT WAS
IN THAT STATEMENT WAS THERE WAS
EXPECTED TO BE
A TURNOUT ROUGHLY AT THE 2016
LEVEL WHICH IS INTERESTING
BECAUSE A LOT OF THE CHATTER
BEFORE THE ELECTION WAS IT WAS
SUPPOSED TO BE A BOOM ELECTION
IN PRETTY
BIG AND IT IS TIME FOR US TO
SEND IT BACK TO ON THE GROUND IN
IOWA, LIBBY. THANK YOU. SECOND
WILL GO TO VICE PRESIDENT BIDEN
WHO IS ADDRESSING SUPPORTERS.
>>
HELLO, EVERYONE.
I WANT TO THANK EVERYONE IN THE
COLLEAGUES IN MY SENATE AND THE
HOUSE FROM THE VICE PRESIDENCY
AND ALL OF YOU AND ALL OF THE
PEOPLE FROM DELAWARE AND
CALIFORNIA AND ALL THE PEOPLE
WHO CAME FROM ALL OVER THAT
CAMPAIGN HERE. MOST OF ALL I
WANT TO THANK THE IOWANS THAT
ARE HERE. WILL THE IOWA
DEMOCRATIC PARTY IS WORKING
TO GET THIS RESOLVED AND GET IT
STRAIGHT. I WANT TO MAKE SURE
THEY ARE VERY CAREFUL IN THEIR
DELIBERATIONS. AND INDICATIONS
ARE THAT IT WILL BE CLOSE AND WE
WILL WALK OUT
OF HERE WITH OUR SHARE OF
DELEGATES AND WE DON'T KNOW
EXACTLY WHAT IT IS YET BUT WE
FEEL GOOD ABOUT WHERE WE ARE SO
IT IS ON DO NEW HAMPSHIRE. AND
NEVADA AND SOUTH CAROLINA AND
WELL BEYOND. WE ARE IN THIS FOR
THE LONG HAUL. AND I WANT US TO
REMEMBER NOT JUST TONIGHT BUT
THROUGHOUT THIS CAMPAIGN THAT --
THANK YOU. THIS IS NOT JUST
ANOTHER ELECTION.
>> DONALD TRUMP AND I SEE
AMERICA FROM DEAR, VERY
DIFFERENT VIEWPOINTS AND WE HAVE
FOR A LONG TIME. TRUMP GREW UP
IN NEW YORK CITY AND A 23 ROOM
NINE BATHROOM MANSION AND I
GROUT IN OKLAHOMA A TWO-BEDROOM
HOUSE WITH ONE BATHROOM AND
A CONVERTED GARAGE WHERE MY
THREE BROTHERS SLEPT AND BY THE
TIME HE WAS THREE DONALD TRUMP
WAS GETTING A $200,000 ALLOWANCE
EVERY YEAR FROM HIS DAD'S REAL
ESTATE EMPIRE AND IN TOTAL HE
GOT NEARLY HALF $1 BILLION FROM
HIS
DAD. ME? I TOOK ON SMALL JOBS TO
MAKE MONEY BABYSITTING AND
WAITRESSING AND SEWING DRESSES
FOR MY AUNT AND DONALD TRUMP
CLAIMED BONE SPURS TO AVOID THE
DRAFT AND ALL THREE OF MY OLDER
BROTHERS SIGNED UP FOR MILITARY
SERVICE AND THE
OLDEST SPENT
5 1/2 YEARS OFF AND ON IN COMBAT
IN VIETNAM AND BEFORE BECAME A
REALITY TV HOST DONALD TRUMP
SAID MOST OF HIS CAREER RUNNING
ONE COMPANY AFTER ANOTHER INTO
BANKRUPTCY STIFFING SMALL
BUSINESSES AND DRIPPING OFF
WORKERS AND SCAMMING STUDENTS. I
SPENT MOST OF MY CAREER
STUDYING MY FAMILY AND WHY
OTHERS GO BROKE AND MAKING IT
EASIER FOR THEM TO GET BACK ON
THEIR FEET. BEFORE I WAS ELECTED
OFFICE, I BUILT AN ENTIRE
FEDERAL AGENCY
TO STOP BIG BANKS AND FINANCIAL
INSTITUTIONS FROM
CHEATING PEOPLE. AND I TELL
YOU THIS AND I
LOVE IT. I TELL YOU
THIS BECAUSE A PERSON'S VALUES
MATTER. THE PRESIDENTS VALUES
MATTER. THE ONLY THING DONALD
TRUMP VALUES IS DONALD TRUMP. HE
BELIEVES THAT GOVERNMENT IS JUST
ONE MORE THING TO EXPLOIT, A
TOOL TO ENRICH HIMSELF AND HIS
CORRUPT BUDDIES AT EVERYONE
ELSE'S EXPENSE. I BELIEVE
GOVERNMENT SHOULD WORK
FOR EVERYONE. AND WE DON'T KNOW
ALL THE RESULTS TONIGHT, BUT
TONIGHT HAS ALREADY SAID THAT
AMERICA --
>> ELIZABETH WORN TO JOE BIDEN
WHO IS ALSO SPEAKING TO
SUPPORTERS.
>> EVERYONE, BLACK AND BROWN IN
THE WHOLE UNIVERSE OF PEOPLE
OUT THERE.
THERE IS NOTHING WE HAVE EVER
FAILED AT WHEN WE TRIED TO DO IT
TOGETHER AND NOTHING AMERICA HAS
EVER FAILED THAT AND SO LADIES
AND GENTLEMEN, ALL OF MY FRIENDS
AND BY THE WAY I WANT TO GIVE A
SPECIAL THANKS AGAIN TO AL
SCHAFER AND THE FIREFIGHTERS AND
YOU HAVE BEEN INCREDIBLE TO US.
BUT FOLKS EVERYBODY KNOWS WHO
DONALD TRUMP IS. WELL, IT IS
FORTUNATE THEY DO KNOW NOW AND
THEY DIDN'T KNOW LAST TIME
I DON'T THINK BUT THEY DO KNOW
NOW AND FOLKS, WE HAVE TO LET
THEM KNOW WHO WE ARE. WE CHOOSE
HOPE OVER FEAR AND WE CHOOSE
SCIENCE OVER FICTION AND UNITY
OVER DIVISION AND COMPASSION
OVER CRUELTY AND MAYBE MOST
IMPORTANT OF ALL TRUTH
OVERLIES. FOLKS, WE ARE GOING TO
DO THIS. I PROMISE YOU. I
PROMISE YOU WE WILL GET THIS
DONE. GOD WILLING, WE WILL DO IT
TOGETHER AND MAY GOD BLESS YOU
ALL AND MAY GOD PROTECT HER
TROOPS.
THANK YOU. ON TO NEW
HAMPSHIRE.
>> NEARLY 2 MILLION PEOPLE WAGED
A WAR TO DEFEAT THE CHARITY
OF SLAVERY AND IN THE 1900S
PEOPLE SAID WE COULD NEVER
RESCUE OUR ECONOMY FROM THE
DEPTH OF THE GREAT DEPRESSION OR
DEFEAT FASCISM, BUT WE FORGED A
NEW DEAL AND MOBILIZE
TO DEFEAT FASCISM AND EXPANDED
UNIONS AND BUILT THE MIDDLE
CLASS AND WE MARCHED FOR
CIVIL RIGHTS. AMERICANS DO BIG
THINGS. THAT IS WHO
WE ARE. WE DON'T SETTLE AND WE
DON'T
BACK DOWN. WE MEET BIG PROBLEMS
WITH EVEN
BIGGER SOLUTIONS. SO I AM HERE
TONIGHT'S BECAUSE I BELIEVE THAT
BIG DREAMS ARE STILL POSSIBLE IN
AMERICA. TONIGHT, YOU SHOWED
THAT WHEN YOU IMAGINE AN AMERICA
THAT
LIVES UP'S TO ITS IDEALS YOU CAN
SET IN MOTION THE PROCESS OF
MAKING IT A REALITY. ALL IT
TAKES IS HARD WORK AND BETTER
CONNECTIONS. AND HERE IN IOWA,
THAT IS WHAT HAPPENED. YOU CAME
TOGETHER AND ORGANIZED AND
SHOWED WE ARE UNITED IN OUR
CONVICTIONS AND
HOPE DEFEATS FEAR AND ENCOURAGE
OVERCOME CYNICISM. THAT WE WILL
ALWAYS BE A STRONGER PARTY AND A
STRONGER NATION AND WHEN WE
UNITE AROUND OUR SHARED VALUES
TO ADVANCE THE JUSTICE AND
EXPAND OPPORTUNITY
TO EVERYONE. SO
RIGHT NOW, ACROSS AMERICA, THERE
ARE FOLKS STANDING WITH GROUPS
OF FRIENDS OR SITTING ON THE
COUCH WITH LOVED ONES AND MAYBE
EVEN WATCHING THIS QUIETLY ON
THEIR PHONES BECAUSE EVERYBODY
ELSE IN THE HOUSE IS ASLEEP AND
WATCHING AND THINKING MAYBE I
COULD HELP OUT AND MAYBE I CAN
VOLUNTEER SOME TIME. MAYBE I
COULD GET IN THE FIGHT AND THAT
IS HOW WE ARE GOING TO DO THIS.
I AM HERE TONIGHT TO TELL YOU
THAT IF YOU HAVE HOPE
THAT AMERICA CAN BE BETTER THAN
IT HAS BEEN IN THESE LAST
FEW YEARS AND IF YOU HAVE THE
COURAGE TO SPEAK OUT AND DO A
LITTLE ORGANIZING WITH US, THEN
THIS CAMPAIGN IS
FOR YOU.
IF YOU CAN IMAGINE AN AMERICA
WHERE CORRUPTION DOESN'T BLOCK
OUR ABILITY TO REDUCE GUN
VIOLENCE AND AN AMERICA WHERE WE
CAN URGENTLY TACKLE
CLIMATE CHANGE AND AN AMERICA
WHERE WE CAN BRING AN END TO THE
OPIOID EPIDEMIC, THEN THIS
CAMPAIGN IS
FOR YOU. IF YOU CAN IMAGINE AN
ECONOMY WERE EVERY JOB HAS
DIGNITY AND PEOPLE ARE PAID A
LIVABLE WAGE AND WERE EVERY
ONE HAS A REAL CHANCE TO THRIVE,
THIS CAMPAIGN IS
FOR YOU. AND IF YOU CAN IMAGINE
A DEMOCRACY WHERE PEOPLE, NOT
MONEY, COME FIRST, THIS CAMPAIGN
IS
FOR YOU. AND IF YOU CAN IMAGINE
THAT AMERICA OF MORAL CLARITY
THAT LIVES IT'S A VALUES EVERY
DAY, THEN THIS CAMPAIGN IS
FOR YOU. TONIGHT, WE ARE ONE
STEP CLOSER TO WINNING THE FIGHT
FOR THE AMERICA WE IMAGINE AS
POSSIBLE. TONIGHT IS FOR YOU.
TONIGHT IS FOR EVERY VOLUNTEER
WHO PUT THEIR FEET TO THE
PAVEMENT TO FIGHT FOR CHANGE AND
IT IS FOR EVERY ORGANIZER THAT
BRAVED THE BLISTERING COLD AND
KNOCK ON DOORS AND IT IS FOR
EVERY PERSON WHO MADE
A CALL OR SEND A TEXT TO SPREAD
THE WORD. I WILL TELL YOU ABOUT
SOME OF HER VOLUNTEERS BECAUSE
TONIGHT IS FOR THE VETERANS AND
THEY
CAME BACK DIAGNOSED WITH PTSD
AND HE VOLUNTEERED EVERY WEEK TO
HELP US BECOME
A NATION THAT HONORS ITS
PROMISES TO ITS VETERANS.
TONIGHT IS FOR EVERY AND DOCK
DEMENTED AND UNAFRAID ORGANIZER
AND VOLUNTEER. WHO PROUDLY
KNOCKED ON DOORS TO LET THE
WORLD KNOW THAT THE
PAST PROGRESS RUNS THROUGH
COURAGE AND
NOT FEAR. AND TONIGHT IS FOR THE
INNOVATIVE AND PERSISTENT WOMEN
WHO ORGANIZED BABYSITTING CLUBS
SO THEY CAN GET IN MORE HOURS OF
VOLUNTEERING. AND TONIGHT'S IS
FOR THE SINGLE MOTHER WHO HAD
BEEN HOMELESS AND SO DETERMINED
THAT HER TWIN DAUGHTERS WOULD
GROW UP IN A BETTER WORLD AND
SHE FOUND THE SPARE MOMENTS TO
MAKE CALLS IN OUR BEHALF AND
TONIGHT IS FOR EVERYONE WHO
BELIEVES THAT NO MATTER THE
COLOR OF YOUR SKIN OR WHO YOU
LOVE OR HOW YOU WORSHIP OR WHERE
YOU WERE BORN OR WHAT ZIP CODE
YOU LIVE IN, YOU SHOULD BE SAFE,
AND ARE OPPORTUNITIES
SHOULD BE PRETTY MUCH AS GOOD AS
EVERYONE
ELSE'S. AND IN EVERY DAY AND
EVERY WAY, THIS MOVEMENT IS MADE
UP OF PEOPLE WHO KNOW THAT THE
ONLY WAY TO MAKE PROGRESS AND
BUILD POWER IS TO FIGHT FROM THE
HEART.
SO TONIGHT, IOWA, AND ALL OF
YOU, I WANT TO SAY
THANK YOU FOR LIVING YOUR
VALUES. THANK YOU FOR STANDING
TOGETHER AND FIGHTING.
>> LET'S GO TO THE BERNIE
SANDERS EVENT WHERE HE IS ABOUT
TO ADDRESS HIS SUPPORTERS.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
LET ME BEGIN
BY STATING I IMAGINE AND HAVE A
STRONG FEELING THAT AT SOME
POINT THE RESULTS WILL BE
ANNOUNCED. AND WHEN THOSE
RESULTS ARE ANNOUNCED, I HAVE A
GOOD FEELING WE ARE GOING TO BE
DOING VERY VERY WELL HERE
IN IOWA. AND
THE MESSAGE THAT IOWA HAS SENT
TO THE NATION, A MESSAGE SHARED
BY THE AMERICAN PEOPLE, IS THAT
WE WANT THE GOVERNMENT THAT
REPRESENTS ALL OF US, NOT JUST
WEALTHY CAMPAIGN CONTRIBUTORS
AND
THE 1%. TONIGHT IN THIS
ENORMOUSLY CONSEQUENTIAL
2020 ELECTION, THE FIRST STATE
IN THE COUNTRY HAS VOTED. TODAY
MARKS THE BEGINNING OF THE END
OF
DONALD TRUMP.
THE MOST DANGEROUS PRESIDENT IN
MODERN AMERICAN HISTORY. YOU
KNOW, NO MATTER WHAT OUR
POLITICAL VIEWS MAY BE, THE
PEOPLE OF AMERICA UNDERSTAND
THAT WE CAN'T CONTINUE TO HAVE A
PRESIDENT WHO IS A PATHOLOGICAL
LIAR AND CORRUPTS. WHO DOES NOT
UNDERSTAND OUR CONSTITUTION AND
IS TRYING TO DIVIDE OUR PEOPLE
UP BASED ON THE COLOR OF THEIR
SKIN, BASED ON THEIR RELIGION,
THEIR SEXUAL ORIENTATION, OR
WHERE THEY
WERE BORN. AND ALL OF THAT
HATRED AND ALL OF
THAT DIVISIVENESS IS GOING TO
END WHEN TOGETHER WE ARE IN THE
WHITE HOUSE.
WE ARE GOING TO WIN THIS
ELECTION BECAUSE THE PEOPLE OF
THE UNITED STATES ARE SICK AND
TIRED OF A MASSIVE LEVEL OF
INCOME AND
WEALTH INEQUALITY. THEY DO WANT
TAX BREAKS FOR
BILLIONAIRES AND CUTS TO SOCIAL
SECURITY, MEDICARE,
AND MEDICAID. THE AMERICAN
PEOPLE UNDERSTAND THAT IF YOU
WORK 40 HOURS A WEEK, YOU SHOULD
NOT LIVE IN POVERTY AND WE HAVE
TO WAIVE THAT MINIMUM WAGE TO AT
LEAST $15
PER HOUR. THE AMERICAN PEOPLE
UNDERSTAND THAT HEALTHCARE IS A
HUMAN RIGHT AND NOT
A PRIVILEGE. AND THAT OUR
ADMINISTRATION IS
GOING TO TAKE ON THE GREED AND
CORRUPTION OF THE INSURANCE
COMPANIES AND THE
PHARMACEUTICAL INDUSTRY AND
WHETHER THEY LIKE IT OR NOT, WE
WILL PASS A MEDICARE FOR ALL
SINGLE
PAY PROGRAMS. AND THE AMERICAN
PEOPLE UNDERSTAND THAT IN THE
YEAR 2020, ALL OF OUR PEOPLE,
REGARDLESS OF INCOME, ARE
ENTITLED TO GET A
HIGHER EDUCATION. AND THAT IS
WHY TOGETHER WE WILL MAKE PUBLIC
COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES
TUITION
FREE AND WHY WE WILL CANCEL ALL
STUDENT DEBT IN AMERICA,, AND WE
WILL
DO THAT FOR A MODEST TAX ON WALL
STREET SPECULATIONS. AND 11
YEARS AGO WE
BAILED OUT THE CROOKS ON WALL
STREET. NOW IT IS THEIR TIME TO
HELP THE
MIDDLE CLASS. AND
I'M LIKE THE PRESIDENT OF THE
UNITED STATES, THE AMERICAN
PEOPLE UNDERSTAND THAT CLIMATE
CHANGE IS NOT A HOAX BUT IS AN
EXISTENTIAL THREAT TO OUR
COUNTRY AND THE
ENTIRE WORLD. THEY
UNDERSTAND THAT THE TIME IS NOW
FOR US TO TAKE ON THE FOSSIL
FUEL INDUSTRY, TO TRANSFORM OUR
ENERGY SYSTEM AWAY FROM FOSSIL
FUEL TO ENERGY EFFICIENCY AND
SUSTAINABLE ENERGIES. AND AS
PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES.
BECAUSE THIS IS A GLOBAL ISSUE
AND NOT JUST AN AMERICAN ISSUE,
WE WILL SPEAK TO THE PEOPLE IN
CHINA AND RUSSIA AND COUNTRIES
ALL OVER
THIS WORLD AND SAY MAYBE, JUST
MAYBE, INSTEAD OF SPENDING $1.8
TRILLION A YEAR ON WEAPONS OF
DESTRUCTION DESIGNED TO KILL
EACH OTHER, MAYBE WE SHOULD POOL
OUR RESOURCES AND FIGHT OUR
COMMON ENEMY, WHICH IS
CLIMATE CHANGE. AND THE PEOPLE
OF AMERICA KNOW THAT THE TIME IS
LONG OVERDUE FOR MAJOR REFORMS
TO A
BROKEN AND RACIST CRIMINAL
JUSTICE SYSTEM. WE ARE GOING TO
INVEST IN OUR YOUNG PEOPLE IN
JOBS AND EDUCATION, NOT MORE
JAILS
AND INCARCERATION. AND THE
AMERICAN PEOPLE ALSO UNDERSTAND
THAT OUR IMMIGRATION SYSTEM
IS BROKEN. TOGETHER, WE WILL
PASS COMPREHENSIVE IMMIGRATION
REFORM AND A PATH
TOWARD CITIZENSHIP. THE AMERICAN
PEOPLE KNOW THAT GUN
SAFETY LEGISLATION WILL BE
WRITTEN BY THE AMERICAN PEOPLE
AND NOT THE
NRA. AND THE AMERICAN PEOPLE
MOST
CERTAINLY NO THAT IT IS WOMEN
WHO MUST CONTROL THEIR OWN
BODIES AND
NOT POLITICIANS. BROTHERS AND
SISTERS, YES, TOGETHER WE WILL
DEFEAT DONALD TRUMP AND WE WILL
DO MORE
THAN THAT. OUR MESSAGE TO WALL
STREET AND THE INSURANCE
COMPANIES AND THE DRUG COMPANIES
AND THE FOSSIL
FUEL INDUSTRIES AND THE
MILITARY-INDUSTRIAL COMPLEX AND
THE PRISON INDUSTRIAL COMPLEX,
OUR MESSAGE TO THEM IS
CHANGES COMING.
>> BERNIE. BERNIE.
BERNIE.
>> TOGETHER, WITH THE STRONGEST
GRASSROOTS MOVEMENT THIS COUNTRY
HAS
EVER SEEN,
WERE WE HAVE KNOCKED ON HUNDREDS
OF THOUSANDS OF DOORS HERE IN
IOWA AND WE ARE DOING IT IN NEW
HAMPSHIRE. SO LET ME CONCLUDE
BY THANKING OUR GREAT STAFF AND
OUR VOLUNTEERS HERE IN IOWA. AND
NOW IT IS ON TO NEW HAMPSHIRE,
NEVADA. SOUTH
CAROLINA, CALIFORNIA, AND ONWARD
TO VICTORY. THANK YOU ALL
VERY MUCH.
>> BERNIE SANDERS ADDRESSING HIS
SUPPORTERS TONIGHT AND WE SAW A
LOT OF CANDIDATES GIVE SPEECHES
TO THEIR SUPPORTERS AND A LOT OF
THEM ARE HEADING TO NEW
HAMPSHIRE EVEN TONIGHT SO THEY
WANT TO ADDRESS IOWA AND MOVE
ON. A TOUGH SITUATION IS THAT WE
DON'T HAVE RESULTS YET FROM THE
IOWA DEMOCRATIC
PARTY AND THEY ARE WAITING FOR
THINGS AND ISSUED A STATEMENT TO
EXPLAIN WHAT IS GOING ON. THEY
SAID THAT WE FOUND
INCONSISTENCIES AND REPORTING OF
THREE SETS OF RESULTS AND IN
ADDITION TO THE TEXAS, TEXAS AND
BEING USED WE ARE USING PHOTOS
OF RESULTS AND A PAPER TRAIL TO
VALIDATE THAT ALL RESULTS MATCH
AND ENSURE WE HAVE CONFIDENCE IN
ACCURACY OF THE NUMBERS REPORT.
THIS IS SIMPLY A REPORTING
AND YOU, ISSUE. THE APP DIDN'T
GO DOWN AND IT IS NOT AN
INTRUSION AND THE UNDERLYING
DATA AND PAPER TRAIL IS SOUND
AND IT WILL TAKE TIME TO FURTHER
REPORT THE RESULTS AND AGAIN
THAT IS A STATEMENT FROM
THE DEMOCRATIC PARTY OF I WENT
FROM THE COMMUNICATIONS DIRECTOR
MANDY McCLURE AND WE WILL GET
SOME PERSPECTIVE OF THIS AND
WHAT IT MEANS BESIDES THE ACTUAL
WAITING WE ARE DOING AND LET'S
GO TO JAMES HOMAN.
>> WE DON'T KNOW HOW MUCH TIME.
>> WE DO KNOW THE CANDIDATES ARE
OFF. AMY KLOBUCHAR AND BERNIE
SANDERS AND ELIZABETH WORN AND
JOE BIDEN HAVE CHARTERED
AIRCRAFT AND WE HAVE REPORTERS
GOING OUT WITH THEM OVERNIGHT
AND THEY ALL HAVE EVENTS PLANNED
AND THE STATE OF THE UNION THEY
ARE PLANNING TO SKIP AND I THINK
THEY ARE LIKE WE HAVE BEEN
AROUND AND TODAY WAS A MANDATORY
DAY FOR THE IMPEACHMENT TRIAL
AND TOMORROW IS NOT MANDATORY
AND WEDNESDAY IS SO THEY WANT TO
GET EVENTS AND THEN CAPITALIZE
ON THIS MOMENTUM AND I THINK ONE
OF THE THINGS COMING OUT WHAT
THIS MEANS IS THERE WILL BE MORE
TICKETS OUT AND THEY CAN CLAIM
THE TREE ON THEIR OWN AND LIVED
TO DIE ANOTHER NEWS CYCLE AND
ONCE WE GET THE NUMBERS THEY
WILL BE BAD FOR A FEW PEOPLE
BUT, RIGHT NOW, YOU CAN SHOW UP
IN NEW HAMPSHIRE ANDIN THE PAST
THIS IS BEEN A NIGHT WHERE
PEOPLE ARE DROPPING OUT OR THEY
DROP OUT THE NEXT MORNING.
NOBODY WILL DROP OUT BASED ON
THE RESULTS IN IOWA AND IN THAT
WAY IT IS NOT NECESSARILY
PLAYING THE SAME FIELD OR THE
SAME ROLE IN THE PAST AND THAT
IS
SIGNIFICANT AND DOES UNDERMINE
ONE OF THE CRITICAL FUNCTIONS OF
THE IOWA CAUCUS.
>> EUGENE, THERE IS
A SHORT TERM RESULTS IN THE
LONGER TERM RESULTS AND THE
CRUNCHING AND LOOKING AT THE
DATA AND FIGURING OUT WHERE YOU
PERFORMED WELL IN IOWA AND WHAT
WAS THE APPEAL BUT IN TERMS OF
THE RAW MOMENTUM OF GETTING OUT
OF IOWA, THIS IS WE WILL SEE
WHEN THE RESULTS COME OUT BUT
THIS IS CHANGING THINGS.
>> INDEED. WHAT WE KNOW RIGHT
NOW IS THAT NOBODY LOST AND THAT
IS WHAT PEOPLE WANTED TO HEAR
AND THE TEAMS NEEDED TO HEAR. I
IMAGINE IT THESE ACTUAL CAUCUSES
WERE WATCHING THAT THERE MAY
HAVE BEEN SOME ANXIETY AMONG
PEOPLE WHO WENT FOR A CANDIDATE
ONLY TO DISCOVER THE CANDIDATE
IS NOT AS POPULAR AS THEIR
CAUCUS SAID THEY MAY HAVE BEEN
IN THEIR HOUSEHOLD OR MAYBE EVEN
IN SOME HOUSEHOLDS THAT WERE
DIVIDED. SO HEARING
THESE FEATURES AND THESE
CANDIDATES REMINDING THEIR
SUPPORTERS THAT YOU MADE THE
RIGHT DECISION TO BACK ME AND
KEEP SUPPORTING ME AND HOPING
THEY MAYBE PICKED UP SOME MORE
PEOPLE IN THESE MOMENTS BECAUSE
I DO IMAGINE THERE ARE PEOPLE
WATCHING THESE
SPEECHES AND MAYBE THEY HAVE NOT
LISTENED TO BEFORE AND MAYBE
THEY HAVE BEEN SO FOCUSED ON
BIDEN AND THEY HAVE NOT HEARD OF
AMY WHICH ARE OR GIVEN ELIZABETH
WARREN ATTENTION AND IT WAS AN
OPPORTUNITY I THINK FOR
CANDIDATES TO SAY LET'S KEEP
GOING AND
DO BETTER
IN NEW HAMPSHIRE WHICH WON'T BE
A CAUCUS BY THE WAY AND
THEREFORE WILL BE A LITTLE
EASIER THAN THIS.
>> A GREAT POINT THAT THIS MAY
BE THE FIRST TIME SOME OF OUR
VIEWERS ARE HEARING THESE
FEATURES WHICH ESSENTIALLY ARE
STUMP SPEECHES AND YOU HAVE BEEN
TO SOME OF THESE
>> I WAS QUOTING.
>> BUT THEY ARE SAYING IT AND IS
THE EXPRESSION IS NEW TO YOU
THIS IS THAT MOMENT TO SEND HIM
A MESSAGE TO THE NATIONAL
AUDIENCE AND WHAT DOES THAT MEAN
TO YOU? FEKETE REMINDED ME OF
THE OLD JOE LIEBERMAN LINE MORE
OR LESS SAYING WE ARE TIED FOR
FIRST PLACE AND WE WILL SEE WHAT
HAPPENS BUT IN MANY WAYS THEY
WERE ALL JUST GOING BACK TO
THEIR STUMP SPEECHES AND I THINK
YOU ARE RIGHT THAT THERE IS A
BIGGER AUDIENCE THAN USUAL RIGHT
NOW IN THE NATIONAL MEDIA AND
THE EYES OF THE COUNTRY ARE ON
THEM SO SOME NEW AUDIENCES FOR
THEM TO GIVE THEIR
SPEECHES BUT AMY KLOBUCHAR, WHO
WAS FIRST STOOD OUT TO ME
BECAUSE HERS WAS ALL ABOUT
TALKING ABOUT DONALD TRUMP AND
HOW SHE COULD BEAT HIM AND SHE
KNOWS SHE HAD A VOLUNTEER
STANDING NEXT TO HER WEARING A
T-SHIRT THAT SAID AMY KLOBUCHAR
BEATS
DONALD TRUMP
AND I AM SURE THAT IS NOT AN
ACCIDENT. SHE WAS REALLY GOING
IN FOR THAT ELECTABILITY
ARGUMENT WHICH IS ONE OF THE
THINGS THAT A LOT OF VOTERS HAVE
HAD A HARD TIME MAKING UP THEIR
MIND AND THAT IS BEEN LIKE THE
CENTRAL CONCERN FOR THEM IS WHO
CAN BEAT DONALD TRUMP. YOU HEARD
CANDIDATES GOING TO THAT IN
THEIR STATEMENT TRYING TO MAKE
THAT THE CENTRAL RATIONALE OF
THEIR CANDIDACIES.
>> I AM SURE THEY WILL BE USING
SPLIT SCREEN OPPORTUNITIES
TOMORROW NIGHT WITH THE STATE OF
THE UNION HAPPENING AND BERNIE
SANDERS SAID HE WON'T GO AND
OTHER SENATORS HAVE YOU HEARD IF
ELIZABETH WORN IS GOING?
>> I KNOW STANDARDS SAID HE
WON'T GO.
>> WE KNOW FOR SURE WE ARE
TALKING ABOUT THIS EARLIER SO
THEY ARE NOT OWING TO THE STATE
OF THE UNION BUT
THERE WERE -- THE WAR LANGUAGE
WAS NEW. THAT WAS A
NEW SPEECH. WHAT THE OTHERS SAY
BASICALLY IS WHAT WE ALWAYS HEAR
FROM THEM BUT ALL FOUR OF THEM
TOOK HARD FRONTAL DIRECT HITS
THAT DONALD TRUMP. THAT I THINK
IS PART OF SETTING UP THAT
CONTRAST AHEAD OF THE STATE OF
THE UNION AND AHEAD OF THE
CERTAIN ACQUITTAL ON WEDNESDAY
AND THEY ARE KIND OF
SHARPENING THAT CONTRAST AND
PART OF THAT IS TO CONVEY TO
VOTERS IN NEW HAMPSHIRE THAT I
CAN GO HEAD-TO-HEAD WITH HIM AND
I CAN BEAT HIM AND IT GETS BACK
TO THAT ELECT ABILITY QUESTION
THAT IS CENTRAL TO THE MINDS OF
THE VOTERS IN IOWA.
>> AND THOSE FOUR SENATORS ARE
RUNNING FOR PRESIDENT INCLUDING
MICHAEL BENNET HAD TO GO BACK TO
DC TODAY TO BE IN THE TRIAL AND
THEY DON'T HAVE TO BE THERE
TOMORROW AND NOT ATTENDING THE
STATE OF THE UNION IS A DECISION
TO MAKE.
>> IT IS A BIG DECISION. SECT
NORMALLY YOU GET CRITICIZED FOR
THAT. TRUMP WANTS TO TAKE HIS
VICTORY LAP AND THERE IS SOME
VALUE OF BEING THERE BECAUSE YOU
CAN USE IT AS A PLATFORM, BUT
THEY ALSO ONLY HAVE ONE WEEK
UNTIL NEW HAMPSHIRE.
>> LET'S GO BACK TO WASHINGTON
AND
JEREMY. SO WITH THE TEAM THERE,
WHAT DO WE KNOW ABOUT TURNOUT
TONIGHT, AND CANNOT TELL US
ANYTHING? BACK THAT IS THE THING
WE HAVE BEEN INTERESTED IN AND
SOMETHING WE SAW ON THAT
STATEMENT THAT CAME FROM THE
DEMOCRATIC PARTY EARLIER TONIGHT
INDICATED THAT THEY WERE
EXPECTING THE TURNOUT IN THE 25%
OF PRECINCTS WHERE THEY HAD SEEN
RESULTS WAS THAT ROUGHLY 2016
LEVELS. THIS SENT OFF A
LITTLE SPIDEY SENSE BECAUSE ONE
OF THE THINGS IN THE THEME IN
THE RUN-UP TO THE RACE WITH A
DISCUSSION OF HOW MANY MORE
PEOPLE WE WERE EXPECTING TO SHOW
UP AND AT A POINT THERE WAS THE
POLK COUNTY DEMOCRATIC CHAIR
TWEETED ABOUT GETTING A STACK OF
NEW BALLOTS AND NEEDED THAT AS
EARLY AS 8:00 P.M. EASTERN TIME
AND SO THIS IS SOMETHING THAT IS
REALLY INTRIGUING TO US BECAUSE
THE TURNOUT NUMBER COULD HAVE A
WIDE RANGING EFFECT DEPENDING ON
HOW DIFFERENT CANDIDATES DEAL
WITH IT SO FOR LITTLE BIT MORE
ON THAT WE WILL BRING IN POST
OPINION COLUMNISTS AND DATA
EXPERT AND ALL-AROUND
SWELL GUY,
DAVID. WHAT HAPPENS IN A RACE
THAT IS NOT THE HIGH TURNOUT
MONSTER WE WERE EXPECTING? WHAT
IF IT IS JUST A LOW TURNOUT
2016?
>> THAT IS AN EXCELLENT
QUESTION. I THINK WE ARE IN A
LITTLE BIT OF UNCHARTERED
TERRITORY THAT WITH THIS
ELECTION I THINK WE EXPECTED IT
TO BE A HIGHER TURNOUT OR AT
LEAST MORE IN PACE WITH 2016.
BECAUSE THEN THERE WERE TWO
CONTESTS AT THE SAME
TIME AND THIS YEAR THERE ARE A
LOT OF DIFFERENT CANDIDATES AND
MULTIPLE ONES WHO ENERGIZE THE
ACTIVIST
BASE AND DEMOCRATS ARE MOTIVATED
TO BE TRUMP AND THEY ARE
ENTHUSIASTIC AND WE SAW THIS IN
THE 2018 MIDTERM. ALL THESE
INDICATORS POINTED TOWARD BETTER
TURNOUT THE
2016 BUT THAT IS NOT WHAT WE
HAVE SEEN IN THE STATEMENT. IT
IS WORTH REMEMBERING THAT THESE
ARE ALL PROVISIONAL, AND WE
DON'T HAVE THE VOTES TO MAKE
STRONG INFERENCES AND MAYBE
TURNOUT LOOK DIFFERENT. BUT IT
IS A VERY DIFFERENT SITUATION
THAN WHAT I THINK WE WERE EXPECT
THEM.
>> RIGHT. YOU KNOW,
THOSE EXTRA PATIENTS WILL BE THE
THING THAT DRIVES US THROUGH THE
REST OF THE NIGHT. WE'RE HOPING
WE WILL START GETTING VOTES HERE
AT ANY POINT FROM THE IOWA
DEMOCRATS. WHEN WE DO WE HAVE
PLENTY OF STUFF TO SHOW YOU AND
PLENTY OF INSIGHTS TO GIVE YOU A
PEEK BEHIND THE CURTAIN AND SEE
WHAT IS GOING ON. UNTIL THEN WE
CAN GET BACK TO IOWA AND LIBBY.
>> WE WILL BE IN FOR A LONG
NIGHT. JOINING US NOW
IS THE ASSISTANT PROFESSOR OF
POLITICAL SCIENCE FROM THE
UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA. THANK
YOU SO MUCH FOR BEING HERE. WE
ARE WAITING TO SEE THE RESULTS
TONIGHT AND THIS IS A BIT
UNUSUAL TO HAVE THE PAUSE BUTTON
ON. WHAT DOES LEAVING IOWA
MEETING
WITH POTENTIAL, A LOT OF TICKETS
SPREAD OUT AMONG THE FIELD AND
WHAT IS THAT MEAN FOR NEW
HAMPSHIRE AND ON DOWN INTO SUPER
TUESDAY?
>> I THINK A LOT OF THIS MEANS
THE REAL WINNER OF IOWA MAY BE
DONALD TRUMP IN THE
SENSE THAT THE MORE CANDIDATES
THERE ARE AND WE DON'T KNOW WHAT
THE RANKING ORDER WILL BE AND
THAT IS WHATEVER BUT HE FIXATES
ON EVEN THOUGH CHANCES ARE MOST
OF THE CANDIDATES WILL
BE PRETTY -- MOST OF THE VIABLE
CANDIDATES TO BE CLOSE TO EACH
OTHER IN TERMS OF PERCENTAGES
AND DELEGATES, BUT THE
PERCEPTION WILL BE DIG DATED BY
WHAT THE ORDER IS AND WE WON'T
KNOW THAT AND MAYBE WE WILL NOTE
TONIGHT AND MAYBE WE WON'T. BUT
THAT TENDS TO
BE WHAT SHAPES THINGS. IF THAT
SHAPES UP IN SUCH A WAY THAT A
LOT OF CANDIDATES ARE STILL IN
THE RACE AND A LOT OF CANDIDATES
HAVE THE ABILITY TO CLAIM A
TICKET TO NEW HAMPSHIRE AND ON
TO THE OTHER EARLY
STATES, THAT MAKES IT MORE AND
MORE DIFFICULT FOR THE PARTY TO
COORDINATE ON A PARTICULAR
CANDIDATE AND THAT IS REALLY
WHAT THE PARTY IS TRYING TO DO
IN THIS PROCESS
>> ALSO GREAT NEWS FOR MIKE
BLOOMBERG.
HIS STRATEGIES SKIP THE EARLY
STATES AND HOPE THERE IS A MODEL
AND NO ONE COMES OUT THE
CLEAR FAVORITE AND BIDEN SEEMS
WEEK AND THEN COME IN ON SUPER
TUESDAY AND SPEND HUNDREDS OF
MILLIONS OF DOLLARS AND I THINK
THE CONFUSION AND MESS TONIGHT
HELPS
HIM.
>> IS IT AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
CANDIDATES? BACK AT THE GET IS
AN OPPORTUNITY FOR THEM TO
CONTINUE TO GET THE MESSAGE OUT
THERE AND REVISIT ANY IDEAS THEY
MAY HAVE HAD THAT THEY
QUESTIONED AND WEREN'T AS
EFFECTIVE OR IMPLEMENT SOME NEW
STRATEGIES IN NEW HAMPSHIRE THAT
COULD BE MORE WIN SOME.
I THINK ONE INTERESTING THING
TONIGHT IS WE DON'T KNOW YET.
BUT I WONDER IF PART OF THE
REASON WHY THEY ARE CHECKING
ACCURACY IS BECAUSE THEY HAD AN
INCREASE IN TURNOUT AND MAY BE
MAKING SURE THAT EVERYTHING WAS
IN ORDER AND THAT
COULD COMMUNICATE SOMETHING TO
PEOPLE IN TERMS OF INTEREST AND
A LOT OF FOCUS ON WHETHER
TURNOUT WILL BE AS BIG IN
NOVEMBER AS PEOPLE FEEL LIKE IT
NEEDS TO BE TO DEFEAT DONALD
TRUMP. SO I THINK WE DON'T KNOW
YET WHAT
THIS MEANS. IT IS THE PROBLEM OF
THE REALITY OF TALKING ABOUT
THESE THINGS IN REAL TIME
WITHOUT HAVING A LOT OF ANSWERS
TO THE PROBLEMS.
>> YOU BROUGHT UP A GREAT POINT
ABOUT HOW THIS COULD BE A ROAD
TEST FOR CANDIDATES MESSAGING
AND REALLY DIGGING INTO THE
NITTY-GRITTY OF THEM AND HOW
DOES THE MESSAGE PLAY WITH
PEOPLE IN THIS PART OF IOWA
WHERE THERE IS LIKE A REAL
AGRICULTURAL
THING AND
THIS GIVES THEM ANOTHER CHANCE
TO RETUNE AS THEY HIT THE ROAD
AND CONTINUE ON.
>> ESPECIALLY BECAUSE THEY WILL
HAVE TO RETUNE ANYWAY.
>> BUT THEY GET ANOTHER CHANCE.
>> THEY DO. WE DO HAVE A STORY
AND I THOUGHT ONLINE ABOUT HOW
IOWA AND NEW HAMPSHIRE AND
NEVADA AND SOUTH CAROLINA
OBVIOUSLY ARE VERY
DIFFERENT, BUT
TOGETHER THEY ACTUALLY REFLECT
AMERICA A LITTLE MORE THAN
PEOPLE I THINK WOULD REALIZE. IT
WILL BE REALLY INTERESTING TO
SEE WHAT THEY DO TO TRY TO BE
MORE ATTRACTIVE TO VOTERS.
>> SO THIS IS A POINT THAT THE
TRUMP CAMPAIGN IS PUT OUT A
STATEMENT POKING AND PUSHING AT
THE DEMOCRATS.
>> BRAD, THE TRUMP CAMPAIGN
MANAGER AND
A CARE DRASTICALLY TRUMP
STATEMENT SAID DEMOCRATS ARE
STEWING IN A CAUCUS MESS OF
THEIR OWN CREATION WITH
THE SLOPPIEST
TRAIN WRECK IN HISTORY. IT WOULD
BE NATURAL FOR PEOPLE TO DOUBT
THE FAIRNESS OF THE PROCESS AND
THESE ARE THE SAME PEOPLE THAT
WANT TO RUN OUR ENTIRE
HEALTHCARE SYSTEM? TONIGHT
PRESIDENT TRUMP POSTED A RECORD
PERFORMANCE IN THE WELL-RUN GOP
IOWA CAUCUSES WITH RECORD
TURNOUT FOR AN INCUMBENT AND
THAT GETS A STAB THEY ARE TRYING
TO PICK UP WHICH IS THE SPEECH
THAT SENATOR SANDERS GAVE HE
EXPRESSED A HIGH DEGREE OF
CONFIDENCE AND HE DID NOT SAY HE
ONE BUT HE DID SAY I THINK
THINGS WILL LOOK REALLY GOOD
ONCE YOU GET THE NUMBERS. IF,
INDEED, THE NUMBERS DO COME OUT
SAY TOMORROW AND HE HAD KIND OF
A DECISIVE VICTORY FOR WHATEVER
REASON, THE SANDERS PEOPLE WOULD
BE VERY UPSET ABOUT THAT AND
THEY WOULD FEEL LIKE THEY WERE
WRONG AND MAYBE THEY WERE DOING
QUALITY ASSURANCE IN PART
BECAUSE THEY DIDN'T BELIEVE THE
NUMBERS. THAT WILL FUEL THAT
MISTRUST BETWEEN THE
PARTY ESTABLISHMENT IN THE
BERNIE WING OF THE PARTY AND I
THINK THAT IS A DIVISION THAT IS
A SCAB THAT THE TRUMP CAMPAIGN
AND I KNOW FROM REPORTING IS
EARLY TO PICK AS MUCH IS
POSSIBLE.
>>
JOE BIDEN EARLIER TONIGHT GIVE A
SPEECH FROM HIS WATCH PARTY IN
DES MOINES AND WE MISSED PART OF
IT BECAUSE THERE WERE SO MANY
HAPPENING AT ONCE AND IT WAS
MOMENTS AGO AND LET'S LISTEN TO
A LITTLE BIT.
>> HELLO, EVERYONE. WELCOME.
LOOKS LIKE IT WILL BE A LONG
NIGHT. THAT I AM FEELING GOOD. I
WANT TO THANK YOU ALL, ALL OF
OUR
SUPPORTERS AND ALL OF THOSE
INCREDIBLE PEOPLE WHO HOLD
PUBLIC OFFICE IN THE STATE TO
ENDORSE AS
AND ALL THE ENDORSEMENTS FROM
ALL ACROSS THE COUNTRY AND MY
COLLEAGUES IN THE SENATE AND
HOUSE FROM THE VICE PRESIDENCY
AND ALL OF YOU AND ALL THE
PEOPLE FROM DELAWARE AND
CALIFORNIA AND ALL OF THE PEOPLE
WHO CAME FROM ALL OVER TO HELP
CAMPAIGN HERE. I LIKE THAT. AND
MOST OF ALL I WANT TO THANK THE
PEOPLE OF IOWA WHO ARE HERE.
WELL, THE IOWA DEMOCRATIC PARTY
IS WORKING TO GET THIS RESOLVED
AND GET
THEM STRAIGHT AND I WANT TO MAKE
SURE THEY ARE CAREFUL IN THEIR
DELIBERATIONS. AND INDICATIONS
ARE THAT IT WILL BE CLOSE AND WE
WILL WALK OUT OF HERE WITH OUR
SHARE OF DELEGATES AND WE DON'T
KNOW EXACTLY WHAT IT IS YET, BUT
WE FEEL GOOD ABOUT WHERE WE ARE.
SO IT IS ON THE NEW HAMPSHIRE.
AND NEVADA. SOUTH CAROLINA AND
WELL BEYOND. WE ARE IN THIS FOR
THE
LONG HAUL. I WANT US TO
REMEMBER, NOT JUST TONIGHT BUT
THROUGHOUT THIS CAMPAIGN,
THANK YOU. THIS IS NOT JUST
ANOTHER ELECTION. THIS IS WELL
BEYOND OUR PARTY. THIS IS ABOUT
ENDING AN ERA WELL ENDING AN ERA
GOD WILLING OF THE PRESIDENTS --
LOOK, THIS IS BIGGER THAN ANY OF
US. IT REALLY IS. WE CAN'T ALLOW
DONALD TRUMP TO BE A REELECT TO
THE UNITED STATES PRESIDENCY
AGAIN. I AM READY TO GIVE THEM A
NEW NICKNAME, THE FORMER
PRESIDENT TRUMP.
AND, FOLKS, AS I SAID, IT IS
BIGGER THAN ANY CANDIDATE AND
ANY
PARTY AND I SAID FROM THE OUTSET
AND JILL AND I SAID WE ARE IN
THE BATTLE FOR THE SOUL OF THE
NATION AND THAT IS NOT
HYPERBOLE. WE REALLY BELIEVE
THAT AND I THINK IT HAS BEEN
DEMONSTRATED EVERY HOUR HE
REMAINS AS PRESIDENT OF THE
UNITED STATES. EACH AND EVERY
ONE OF US KNOWS THAT DEEPEN OUR
BONES THAT EVERYTHING THIS
NATION STANDS FOR IS AT STAKE
AND I REALLY MEAN IT. FOUR MORE
YEARS OF DONALD TRUMP WILL
FUNDAMENTALLY ALTER THE
CHARACTER OF OUR NATION AND
CHARACTER IS ON THE BALLOT AND
THAT IS WHAT
THIS IS. EVERYTHING THAT MAKES
AMERICA AMERICA IS AT STAKE AND
LITERALLY THE DEMOCRACY IS
AT STAKE. AND I SAY THAT BECAUSE
YOU HAVE BEEN DOING THIS HEART
OF WORK AS I HAVE. FOLKS, I LOVE
HER TO, MAN. I TELL YOU WHAT.
THE OTHER REASON WE ARE RUNNING
AS WE WILL MAKE SURE
IT HAPPENS AND WE HAVE TO
REBUILD THE BACKBONE OF THIS
COUNTRY AND THE WORKING-CLASS
AND MIDDLE-CLASS HAVE BEEN
GETTING LAID OUT BADLY BY THIS
ADMINISTRATION AND THE MIDDLE
CLASS HAS BEEN HURT VERY BADLY
BUT LOOK, YOU KNOW WHAT? WE HAVE
TO UNIFY THIS COUNTRY AS WELL
AND EVERYBODY UNDERSTANDS THAT
CEOS AND WALL STREET BANKERS
DIDN'T BUILD AMERICA AND
ORDINARY HARD-WORKING AMERICANS
LED BY UNIONS MADE AMERICA. AND
FOLKS, WE NEED A PRESIDENT WHO
IS NOT ONLY READY TO FIGHT BUT
ALSO READY TO HEAL THIS COUNTRY
AND WE
CAN'T HOLD DREDGES. WE HAVE TO
BE ABLE TO GO OUT AND UNIFY THE
COUNTRY BECAUSE THE PRESIDENT IS
SUPPOSED TO HEAL AS WELL AS
FIGHT. THAT IS EXACT THE WHAT I
PLAN ON DOING AND WE PLAN ON
DOING AND ALL OF US IN THIS HALL
PLAN ON DOING. LADIES AND
GENTLEMEN, I WILL GO ALL OVER
THIS COUNTRY, EVERY PART OF THE
DEMOCRATIC PARTY AND
UNITE IT,  MEN AND WOMEN AND AND
STRAIGHT AND EVERYONE, BLACK AND
BROWN AND THE WHOLE UNIVERSE OF
PEOPLE OUT THERE  BECAUSE FOLKS
THERE IS NOTHING WE HAVE EVER
FEEL THAT WHEN WE TRIED TO DO IT
TOGETHER. NOTHING AMERICA HAS
EVER EVER FEEL THAT. SO, LADIES
AND GENTLEMEN, ALL OF MY
FRIENDS, AND BY THE WAY I WANT
TO MAKE A SPECIAL THANKS AGAIN
TO AL SCHAFER AND THE
FIREFIGHTERS. YOU HAVE BEEN
INCREDIBLE
TO US.
BUT, FOLKS, EVERYBODY KNOWS WHO
DONALD TRUMP IS. WELL, IT IS
FORTUNATE THEY DO KNOW NOW
BECAUSE THEY DIDN'T KNOW LAST
TIME I DON'T. WHAT THEY KNOW
NOW. WE HAVE TO KNOW AND LET
THEM KNOW WHO WE ARE. WE CHOOSE
HOPE OVER FEAR. WE CHOOSE
SCIENCE OVER FICTION. UNITY OVER
DIVISION. AND COMPASSION
OVER CRUELTY. AND MAYBE, MOST
IMPORTANTLY OF ALL, TRUTH
OVERLIES. FOLKS, WE ARE GOING TO
DO THIS. I PROMISE YOU. I
PROMISE YOU WE WILL GET THIS
DONE. GOD WILLING, WE WILL DO
IT TOGETHER AND MAY GOD BLESS
YOU ALL AND MAY GOD PROTECT OUR
TROOPS. THANK YOU. THANK YOU.
THANK YOU. ON TO NEW HAMPSHIRE.
>>
JOE BIDEN
SAYING ON THE NEW HAMPSHIRE JUST
LIKE SO MANY OF THE OTHER
CANDIDATES ARE TONIGHT IN YOUR
BEEN COVERING THE FORMER VICE
PRESIDENT ON THE TRAIL IN THE
LAST WEEK OR SO IN IOWA AND WHAT
DID YOU MAKE A TONIGHT SPEECH?
BACK I THOUGHT IT WAS THE MOST
ENERGETIC I HAVE SEEN THE VICE
PRESIDENT IN A FEW DAYS. THAT TO
BE FOR A FEW REASONS. IT COULD
BE BECAUSE THERE ARE SO MANY
DIFFERENT RALLIES THAT THEY HAVE
AND IT CAN GET TO YOU AT TIMES
AND THERE COULD BE SOME OTHER
CONCERNS ABOUT MAYBE NOT FEEDING
OFF THE CROWD AND ENERGY OF THE
FOLKS WHO CAME TOGETHER. WHEN I
SAW HIM ONE TIME IN PARTICULAR
IN A MORE RURAL ENVIRONMENT AND
THE CROWD WAS OLDER AND WAS NOT
AS ENERGETIC AS THIS CROWD AND
MAYBE HE WANTS TO ENCOURAGE
PEOPLE AND LET THEM KNOW THAT
MAYBE THINGS ARE NOT BETTER
PERFORMING THEN THE SUM OF HIS
AIDES
THOUGHT THEY WOULD HAVE GOING
IN. THERE WAS SOME SUGGESTION
FROM PEOPLE CLOSE TO BIDEN
MOVING FORWARD THAT TONIGHT
MAYBE THEY WEREN'T GOING TO WIN
BUT HAVE A STRONG SHOWING. THIS
IS ABOUT MORALE BUILDING AT THIS
POINT ENCOURAGING PEOPLE TO STAY
ON THE
TRAIN.
>> WE DON'T KNOW HOW HE HAS
PERFORMED ALTHOUGH WE WILL LEARN
MORE FROM THE ENTRANCE POLES AND
OTHER WAY TO LOOK AT THE DATA
EVEN THOUGH WE ARE WAITING FOR
THE OFFICIAL PARTY RESULTS. WHAT
STOOD OUT FOR YOU IN THE SPEECH
TONIGHT?
>> I DO AGREE HE SEEMED MORE
ENERGIZED AND IT WAS HIS FIRST
GOOD NIGHT SLEEP AND IT COULD
ALSO BE IN THE TRENDLINE FOR
THEM HAS NOT
BEEN GREAT AND THERE HAVE BEEN A
FEW SORT OF MISHAPS AND ONE OF
HIS CHIEF SURROGATES,
JOHN KERRY WAS OVERHEARD
SUGGESTING MAYBE
HE SHOULD RUN FOR THE
NOMINATION. THE SENSE WAS THIS
IS NOT TO BE A GREAT NIGHT MAYBE
FOR BIDEN AND THEY PROBABLY FEEL
PRETTY GOOD ABOUT THIS DELAY AND
THE
IOWA RESULTS BEING MINIMIZED IN
TERMS OF THE IMPORTANCE
POTENTIALLY. IF THAT HAPPENS IT
FEEDS INTO THE BIDEN STRATEGY
WHICH I THINK IN GENERAL HAS
FOCUSED ON A LONG GAME
OF GOING INTO THE SUPER TUESDAY
STATES. AFTER THAT BUILDING UP A
DELEGATE COUNT AS OPPOSED TO
WINNING THESE EARLY STATES.
>> THE CAMPAIGNS ARE STRUGGLING
OF WHAT
TO MAKE IN THE DELAY OF GETTING
RETURNS. IF YOU ARE TUNING IN
AND FINDING OUT WHAT IS
HAPPENING IN IOWA, WE ARE ALL
WAITING BECAUSE THE DEMOCRATIC
PARTY SAID THEY ARE NOT READY TO
RELEASE THE DATA AND INFORMATION
BECAUSE THEY ARE TRYING TO TALLY
THE RESULTS AND CONCERNS AND
THEY ARE MAKING SURE THEY ARE
ACCURATE BEFORE THEY RELEASE
THEM PUBLICLY SO HERE IS HOW THE
BIDEN CAMPAIGN IS RESPONDING TO
THIS AND LET'S LOOK AT THIS AND
THIS IS A LETTER OBTAINED BY THE
WASHINGTON POST FROM THE
CAMPAIGNS GENERAL COUNSEL AND
SHE WROTE TO THE DEMOCRATIC
PARTY THIS. I WRITE ON BEHALF OF
THE BIDEN FOR PRESIDENT CAMPAIGN
REGARDING THE CONSIDERABLE FLAWS
IN TONIGHT'S REPORTING SYSTEM.
THE APP THAT WAS INTENDED TO
RELAY CAUCUS RESULTS TO THE
PARTY FAILED AND THE PARTIES
BACKUP TELEPHONIC REPORTING
SYSTEM LIKE ISIS FIELD. WE
UNDERSTAND THAT CAUCUS CHAIRS
ARE ATTEMPTING TO AND IN MANY
CASES FAILING TO REPORT RESULTS
TELEPHONIC TO THE PARTY AND SHE
GOES ON TO SAY THESE ACUTE
FAILURES ARE OCCURRING STATEWIDE
AND WE APPRECIATE THAT YOU PLAN
TO BRIEF THE CAMPAIGNS
MOMENTARILY ON THESE ISSUES AND
WE PLAN
TO PARTICIPATE. HOWEVER, WE
BELIEVE THE CAMPAIGNS DESERVE
FULL EXPLANATIONS AND RELEVANT
INFORMATION REGARDING THE METHOD
OF QUALITY CONTROL
YOUR EMPLOYING AND AN
OPPORTUNITY TO RESPOND BEFORE
ANY OFFICIAL RESULTS ARE
RELEASED. AGAIN, THAT
IS FROM JOE BIDEN'S COUNSEL.
WHAT YOU INTERPRET FROM THIS.
OBVIOUSLY CONCERN ABOUT THE
PROCESS AND MAKING SURE THAT THE
PEOPLE'S VOICES ARE
HEARD, BUT IT SOUNDS LIKE OFFICE
AND DEFENSE.
>> I THINK IT IS MANAGING
EXPECTATIONS AND CASTING DOUBT
ON THE PROCESS AND NO DOUBT JOE
BIDEN WANTS TO MUTE THE RESULTS
OF IOWA.
AND MAYBE BOTH OF THEM LIVING
NEXT DOOR. HE HAS SAID IN RECENT
DAYS THAT IT IS UNUSUAL TO BE
LOWERING EXPECT PATIENTS IN THE
DAYS BEFORE BUT HE HAS BEEN
SAYING THAT CAMPAIGNING AROUND
IOWA THAT WE SHOULD LOOK AT ALL
FOR THE FIRST EARLY STATES AND
TALKING ABOUT HIS FIREWALL AND
TALKING ABOUT THE DIVERSITY AND
REPRESENTATION OF SOUTH CAROLINA
AND NEVADA. LOOKS LIKE THIS
LETTER WAS WRITTEN AND THAT
SECOND PARAGRAPH HE SAID I
APPRECIATE THAT YOU WILL BRIEF
US MOMENTARILY AND THAT'S ABOUT
CREATING A PAPER TRAIL TO SAY
THAT WE RAISED THESE CONCERNS
AND
THEY COULD
SAY THIS COULD BE USED TO CAST
OUT TOMORROW ON WHATEVER THE
NUMBERS ARE IF THEY ARE BAD FOR
VICE PRESIDENT BIDEN.
>> A REAL QUESTION MARK ABOUT
PERFORMANCE AND EVEN IF WE DON'T
HAVE THE RESULTS TONIGHT,
THROUGH THE ENTRANCE POLLING
DATA AND WE SAID ENTRANCE POLES
BECAUSE IOWA DOESN'T DO EXIT
POLLS BUT IN IOWA HERE PEOPLE
ARE CHECKING IN BEFORE PEOPLE GO
INTO CAUCUSES AND HEADING INTO
GET A READ OF HOW THEY ARE
FEELING.
>> SO THE ENTRANCE POLES, AND WE
ARE REPORTING THE TOPLINE. WHERE
IT IS USEFUL IS TO UNDERSTAND
WHAT ISSUES PEOPLE CARED ABOUT
HIM WHY AND WHAT MOTIVATED THOSE
PEOPLE AND ABOUT PEOPLE WHO
CARED ABOUT BEATING TRUMP
BECAUSE IT IS AN ENTRANCE PULL
IT DISCOUNTS ALL THE PEOPLE NOT
VIABLE IN THAT BASICALLY FIRST
OF THREE NUMBERS THEY
ARE TRACKING
AND THE IRONY IS IF YOU TAKE THE
IOWA DEMOCRATIC PARTY AT ITS
WORD IS THE REASON THEY ARE
HAVING TROUBLE IS TRYING TO
REPORT ALL THREE NUMBERS AND'S
OF THE TWO NUMBERS THAT THEY
HAVE HISTORICALLY PUT OUT.
>> REMIND US WHAT THOSE ARE.
>> THE FIRST ONE IS THE RAW
TOTAL OF WHO CAME IN AND FOR HOW
MANY CANDIDATES AND BODY NUMBERS
AND NUMBER TWO IS THE STATE
DELEGATE EQUIVALENT FOR HOW MANY
PEOPLE TURNED OUT IN PRECINCTS
IN THE PAST AND THAT WILL HAVE A
FEW HUNDRED OF THOSE AND THE
FINAL THIRD NUMBER IS HOW MANY
DELEGATES THEY WILL GET IN ABOUT
40 SOME ODD DELEGATES UP FOR
GRABS AND THAT IS HOW MANY
LITERAL REPRESENTATIVES THEY
WILL HAVE AT THE CONVENTION IN
MILWAUKEE IN JULY AND POSSIBLE
FOR THE FIRST TIME EVER THAT
FIVE CANDIDATES ESPECIALLY BASED
ON THE SPEECHES, THEY COULD COME
OUT WITH AT LEAST
ONE DELEGATE FROM TONIGHT. AND
THAT IS INTERESTING BECAUSE IT'S
ALSO ONE OF THE QUALIFICATION
REQUIREMENTS NOW AND THE DNC
CHANGE THE QUALIFICATIONS FOR
THE DEBATE AND SAID IF YOU GET
ONE DELEGATE, THAT CHECKS ONE OF
THE BOXES AND THAT COULD MEAN WE
HAVE
BIGGER DEBATES GOING INTO
NEVADA. AND AGAIN NOT ONE OF THE
FIELDS. BUT WE STILL DON'T KNOW
THE NUMBERS.
>> WE HAVE SEEN ELIZABETH WARREN
THERE  AND DOING THE
SELFIE LINE. BUT THE PERSONAL
PHOTO OPPORTUNITY HAS BEEN A
HALLMARK OF THIS CAMPAIGN AND
YOU CAN SEE HER SUPPORTERS AND
PETE BUTTIGIEG IS ADDRESSING
SUPPORTERS. WE WILL WATCH AS HE
WALKS INTO THIS CROWD HERE. THIS
IS BEEN AN IMPORTANT DATE
POTENTIALLY FOR PEOPLE TO JUDGE
AND LET'S GO IN TO HEAR HIM LIVE
AS HE
ADDRESSES SUPPORTERS.
>>
THANK YOU, IOWA. THANK YOU.
THANK YOU. WHAT A NIGHT.
BECAUSE TONIGHT AND IMPROBABLE
HOPE BECAME AN
UNDENIABLE REALITY.
SO WE DON'T KNOW ALL
THE RESULT. BUT WE KNOW BY THE
TIME IT IS ALL SAID AND DONE,
IOWA, YOU HAVE SHOCKED
THE NATION.
BECAUSE, BY ALL INDICATIONS, WE
ARE GOING ON TO NEW
HAMPSHIRE VICTORIOUS.
ONE
YEAR AGO
, IT WAS IN THE DEEP FREEZE OF
AN IOWA JANUARY WHERE WE BEGAN
THIS UNLIKELY JOURNEY TO WIN THE
AMERICAN PRESIDENCY. WE WERE NOT
WELL KNOWN, AND WE HAD A NEW
IDEA, THE IDEA THAT IT THIS
MOMENT WHEN WASHINGTON HAS NEVER
FELT FURTHER FROM OUR EVERYDAY
LIVES, MIDDLE-CLASS MAYOR FROM
THE AMERICAN MIDWEST COULD CARRY
THE VOICES OF THE AMERICAN
PEOPLE ALL THE WAY TO THE
AMERICAN CAPITAL AND MAKE SURE
THEY ARE
ACTUALLY HEARD.
WE HAD THE BELIEF THAT IN THE
FACE OF EXHAUSTION AND THE
CYNICISMAND DIVISION, IN SPITE
OF EVERY TRAMPLED FORM THAT
ARISING MAJORITY OF AMERICANS
WAS HUNGRY FOR ACTION AND READY
FOR
NEW ANSWERS. WE COULD SEE AN
AMERICAN MAJORITY RULES YEARNING
FOR LEADERSHIP TO RALLY US
TOGETHER BEHIND BOLD IDEAS TO
MAKE A DIFFERENCE IN OUR LIVES.
WE SAW THAT AMERICANS WERE READY
TO COME TOGETHER BUT OUR
POLITICS
WERE NOT. TO SEIZE THIS MOMENT
WE NEEDED A NEW PATH FORWARD,
PAST THAT WELCOMED PEOPLE
INSTEAD OF PUSHING THEM AWAY AND
BROUGHT THEM TOGETHER INSTEAD OF
DRIVING THEM APART BECAUSE THIS
IS OUR BEST AND MAY BE OUR
LAST SHOT. WE KNEW THAT WITH
THIS AMERICAN MAJORITY WE WERE
ON THE
CUSP OF CHANGING THE GAME FOR
ORDINARY AMERICANS, BUT WE COULD
NOT WIN
OR GOVERN IF WE WROTE PEOPLE OFF
WHO DIDN'T AGREE WITH US 100% OF
THE TIME, BUT IF WE COULD COME
TOGETHER, THE FUTURE THAT WE
KNOW IS POSSIBLE WOULD START ON
JANUARY
21, 2021.
NOW THERE WERE SKEPTIC, AN AWFUL
LOT OF SKEPTICS, WHO SAID NOT
NOW AND NOT THIS TIME AND THERE
WAS TALK OF
BELONGING AND BRIDGING DIVIDES
IS TOO NAVE AND TOO RISKY. SO
TONIGHT, I SAY WITH A HEART FULL
OF GRATITUDE, IOWA, YOU HAVE
PROVED TO THOSE
SKEPTICS WRONG.
BY YOUR EFFORTS AND BY YOUR
EFFORT
WE BROUGHT TOGETHER AN
EXTRAORDINARY COALITION OF
AMERICANS, PROGRESSIVES,
MODERATES, AND A GOOD NUMBER OF
WHAT WE LIKE TO CALL FUTURE
FORMER REPUBLICANS.
AND THAT IS HOW WE ARE GOING TO
WIN IN NOVEMBER. BECAUSE IT
IS ABOUT ADDING PEOPLE TO OUR
CAUSE AND ADDING DOOR MAJORITY
AND THAT IS HOW WE WILL
GUARANTEE THAT ON THE DAY DONALD
TRUMP LEADS OFFICE, WE WILL BE
ABLE TO MOVE AMERICA FORWARD
INTO THE AREA THAT MUST
COME NEXT.
AND I WANT TO THANK EVERY MEMBER
OF OUR CAMPAIGN STAFF AND EVERY
ORGANIZER AND VOLUNTEER AND
EVERY CAUCUS GO OR WHO TALK TO A
NEIGHBOR OR COWORKER AND EVERY
STAFF MEMBER AND SUPPORTER WHO
BELIEVED AND ANYONE WHO SHARES
OUR VISION
CAN JOIN THE THREE QUARTERS OF 1
MILLION GRASSROOTS SUPPORTERS
FUELING THE MOVEMENT AND
CHIPPING RIGHT NOW AT PETE
FOR AMERICA.COM
>>
AND WHILE WE ARE AT IT, I WANT
TO RECOGNIZE A FEW OF THE PEOPLE
WHO HELPED US GET TO THIS NIGHT.
MY MOTHER, WHO NOT ONLY HELPED
RAISE ME BUT HER LOVE OF
LANGUAGE TO WORK ANSWERING
LETTER SENT TO
OUR CAMPAIGN.
MY FATHER, WHO LEFT US IN
THE VERY EARLY DAYS OF THIS
JOURNEY BUT WHOSE OWN JOURNEY TO
THIS COUNTRY MADE TONIGHT
POSSIBLE IN THE
FIRST PLACE.
AND TO THE LOVE OF MY LIFE,
KEEPING MY FEET ON THE GROUND.
HERE IT FOR THE FIRST FUTURE
FIRST GENTLEMAN OF THE
UNITED STATES.
I ALSO WANT TO CONGRATULATE MY
FELLOW DEMOCRATIC COMPETITORS IN
THIS DIVERSE AND FORMIDABLE
FIELD. FOR MONTHS WE HAVE BEEN
HAVING AN HONEST AND RESPECTFUL
BUT
VIGOROUS DEBATE ABOUT THE COURSE
OF OUR PARTY IN THE FUTURE OF
THIS NATION. TONIGHT, IOWA CHOSE
A
NEW PAST.
FROM RIVER TO RIVER AND IN
CHURCHES AND COMMUNITY CENTERS
AND HIGH SCHOOL GYMS, YOU JOINED
YOUR NEIGHBORS TO SAY THE TIME
HAS COME TO TURN THE PAGE AND
OPEN UP A NEW CHAPTER IN HER IN
THE
AMERICAN STORY. YOU CHOSE TO
MOVE ON NOT JUST FROM THE BROKEN
POLICIES OF THESE LAST TWO YEARS
BUT THE BROKEN POLITICS THAT GOT
US HERE.
AND TOMORROW, BECAUSE OF WHAT WE
DID HERE, THE NATION WILL HAVE
THAT CHOICE TOO.
WE TAKE OUR MESSAGE ONWARD TO
NEW HAMPSHIRE, WHICH HAS A WAY
OF MAKING UP ITS OWN MIND, TO
NEVADA TO SOUTH CAROLINA AND
BEYOND TO EVERY CORNER
OF AMERICA. AND AS WE DO, WE
WILL BE BUILDING THE MOVEMENT
THAT NOT ONLY WILL WIN THE
ELECTION AGAINST DONALD TRUMP,
BUT WHEN THE ERA FOR OUR
SHARED VALUES. WE HAVE EXACTLY
ONE SHOT TO DEFEAT
DONALD TRUMP, AND WE WON'T DO IT
BY OVERREACHING OR BY DIVISION
OR DO IT BY SAYING IT IS MY WAY
OR
THE HIGHWAY. THIS IS OUR SHOT,
OUR ONLY SHOT TO GALVANIZE AN
AMERICAN MAJORITY TO WIN. AND
MAKE NO MISTAKE, OURS IS THE
CAMPAIGN THAT WILL DEFEAT
THIS PRESIDENT.
A PRESIDENT
WHO CUTS TAXES FOR CORPORATIONS
WHILE CRUSHING THE RIGHTS OF
WORKERS TO
ORGANIZE OUGHT TO HAVE TO
COMPETE WITH THE MIDDLE-CLASS
MAYOR WHO ENTERED POLITICS
FIGHTING FOR AUTOWORKERS AND
ACTUALLY LIVES AND WORKS IN THE
INDUSTRIAL MIDWEST. PRESIDENT
WHO
TRIES TO QUOTE HIMSELF AND HIS
WRONGDOING AND RELIGION SHOULD
HAVE TO DEBATE A CANDIDATE NOT
AFRAID TO REMIND AMERICA THAT
GOD DOES NOT BELONG TO A
POLITICAL PARTY.
AND A PRESIDENT WHO AVOIDED
SERVING WHEN IT WAS HIS TURN
SHOULD HAVE TO STAND NEXT TO THE
VETERAN READY TO SHOW WHAT
TROOPS DESERVE FROM A
REAL COMMANDER-IN-CHIEF
THIS PRESIDENT MAY GET A PASS ON
THE FLOOR OF THE SENATE BUT THIS
NOVEMBER THE VERDICT WILL BE UP
TO US AND WHEN I AM YOUR NOMINEE
WE WILL WIN BIG ENOUGH TO AND
NOT ONLY HAS PRESIDENCY BUT
TRUMP IS HIM INTO THE DUSTBIN OF
HISTORY WHERE
IT BELONGS. SOMETHING IS
STIRRING IN AMERICA RIGHT NOW
AND YOU CAN FEEL IT. WE SAW IT
TONIGHT AND THE BLUEST AND
REDDEST COUNTIES AND THE RURAL
AND INDUSTRIAL CITIES AND IN BIG
AND SMALL COMMUNITIES IN THE
SUBURBS IN BETWEEN AND WE SEE
DEMOCRATS HUNGRY
TO WIN AND INDEPENDENT VOTERS
WHO HAD BEEN TURNED OFF BY HER
POLITICS AND REPUBLICANS TIRED
OF TRYING TO LOOK THEIR KIDS IN
THE EYE AND EXPLAIN THIS
PRESIDENCY ALL STANDING TOGETHER
AND ALL STANDING TOGETHER TO
DECLARE THAT WE ARE DEFINED NOT
BY WHO WE VOTED FOR IN THE PAST
BUT BY WHAT WE ARE VOTING FOR IN
THE FUTURE.
THIS IS THE COALITION THAT
NO PUNDITS SAW COMING AND IT IS
THE COALITION THAT THE PRESIDENT
WON'T SEE
COMING EITHER. AND IT IS A
MAJORITY THAT WE ARE ASSEMBLING
TO AGREE NOT JUST ON WHO WE ARE
AGAINST BUT ON WHAT WE
ARE FOR.
WE ARE UNIFYING A RISING
AMERICAN MAJORITY READY TO RAISE
WAGES AND EMPOWER WORKERS IN
THIS FAST CHANGING ECONOMY.
MAJORITY READY AND DETERMINED TO
PUT AN END TO
ENDLESS WAR. MAJORITY COMMITTED
TO BRINGING ABOUT A DAY IN
AMERICA WHERE YOUR RACE HAS NO
BEARING ON YOUR HEALTH OR WEALTH
OR ACCESS TO EDUCATION OR YOUR
RELATIONSHIP TO
LAW ENFORCEMENT
AND A MAJORITY OF AMERICANS
READY TO SUPPORT HER TEACHERS
AND A SECRETARY OF EDUCATION WHO
BELIEVES IN
PUBLIC EDUCATION
AND THOSE AMERICANS ARE COUNTING
ON US AND THEY
CAN'T WAIT. I MET AMERICANS NOT
EVEN YET OLD ENOUGH TO VOTE BUT
WHO KNOW THAT
WE CAN'T WIN AND AN 11-YEAR-OLD
ASKING HOW HIS FAMILY WILL BE
ABLE TO AFFORD THE INSULIN
HE NEEDS. HE CAN'T WAIT FOR
PRESIDENT WHO WILL MAKE SURE
THERE IS NO SUCH THING AS AN
UNINSURED AMERICAN OR
NON-AFFORDABLE PRESCRIPTION. THE
14-YEAR-OLD WHO LET ME KNOW SHE
IS ALREADY WRITTEN OUT OF WILL
BECAUSE SHE IS TERRIFIED THE
NEXT DAY IN SCHOOL COULD BE OUR
LAST AND CAN'T WAIT FOR
PRESIDENT WHO WILL SEE TO IT
THAT SHE CAN WALK INTO HER
SCHOOL FREE
OF FEAR AND A 10-YEAR-OLD WHO
LET ME KNOW HE EXPECTS TO BE
AROUND AND 2100 AND WILL LOOK
BACK AT WHETHER WE ACTED FAST
ENOUGH TO SECURE HIS FUTURE. HE
CAN'T WAIT
FOR PRESIDENT PREPARED TO ENLIST
EVERY AMERICAN IN THE FIGHT
FOR CLAIMANT. WE ARE RUNNING FOR
THEM. THIS CAMPAIGN IS GIVING
VOICE TO THEM, AND IT HAS ROOM
FOR EVERYONE, BECAUSE NO MATTER
WHO YOU VOTED FOR IN
ELECTIONS PAST, AND FOR THAT
MATTER, MATTER WHO YOU CAUCUSED
FOR TONIGHT, WE WELCOME YOU IN
OUR CAMPAIGN AND YOU BELONG IN
THE FUTURE THAT WE ARE BUILDING
FOR AMERICA.
WHETHER YOU ARE A YOUNG WOMAN
WITH AUTISM OR A VETERAN
BATTLING ADDICTION IN CLAREMONT,
YOU BELONG. AND WHETHER YOU
CLEAN HOTEL ROOMS IN LAS VEGAS
OR ARE GETTING A NEW BUSINESS UP
AND RUNNING IN CHARLESTON
YOU BELONG. I BELIEVE THE
PRESIDENCY HAS
A PURPOSE AND THE PURPOSE OF OUR
AMERICAN PRESIDENCY IS NOT THE
GLORIFICATION OF THE PRESIDENT
BUT THE UNIFICATION AND THE
EMPOWERMENT TO THE AMERICAN
PEOPLE TO
SOLVE THIS. AMERICA HAS A PLACE
FOR EVERYONE
. I BELIEVE THIS NOT BECAUSE OF
MY AGE BUT BECAUSE OF MY
EXPERIENCE. I BELIEVE IN
AMERICAN UNITY BECAUSE OF MY
EXPERIENCE SERVING AND OF LACING
UP MY BOOTH IN THE DUST OF A WAR
ZONE ALONGSIDE AMERICAN SO
DIFFERENT WE HARDLY HAD ANYTHING
IN COMMON BESIDES THE FLAG ON
OUR SHOULDERS BUT LEARN TO TRUST
EACH OTHER WITH
OUR LIVES.
I BELIEVE IN AMERICAN BOLDNESS
BECAUSE OF MY EXPERIENCE
GOVERNING AND GUIDING THE CITY
ONCE CALLED DYING OUT OF THE
SHADOWS OF OUR EMPTY FACTORIES
AND INTO A
BRIGHTER FUTURE. AND I BELIEVE
IN AMERICAN BELONG IN BECAUSE OF
AN EXPERIENCE YOU ARE PART OF
RIGHT HERE TONIGHT. LOOKING OUT
IT YOU AND REMEMBERING HOW IT
FELT TO BE AN INDIANA
TEENAGER WONDERING IF HE WOULD
EVER BELONG IN THIS WORLD.
WONDERING IF SOMETHING DEEP
INSIDE OF HIM MEANT THAT HE
WOULD FOREVER BE AN OUTSIDER
THAT HE MAY NEVER WEAR THE
UNIFORM OR NEVER BE ACCEPTED OR
NEVER EVEN
KNOW LOVE.
AND NOW THAT SAME PERSON IS
STANDING IN FRONT OF YOU, OF
MAYOR, VETERAN, HAPPILY MARRIED
AND ONE STEP CLOSER TO BECOMING
THE NEXT PRESIDENT OF THE
UNITED STATES.
THAT IS THE AMERICA WE ARE
BUILDING. THAT IS THE AMERICA SO
MANY IOWANS CHOSE TONIGHT. IF
YOU ARE READY TO BUILD IN
AMERICAN LIFE DEFINED BY
BELONGING, THIS IS
OUR CHANCE. AND IF YOU ARE READY
TO BUILD IN AMERICAN POLITICS
DEFINED BY BOLDNESS, THIS IS
OUR CHANCE. AND IF YOU ARE READY
TO BUILD AN AMERICAN FUTURE
DEFINED BY UNITY IN THE FACE OF
OUR GREATEST CHALLENGES, THIS IS
OUR CHANCE. SO WITH HOPE IN OUR
HEART AND FIRE IN OUR BELLIES,
WE ARE GOING ON TO
NEW HAMPSHIRE, ON TO THE
NOMINATION, AND ON TO CHART A
NEW COURSE FOR THIS COUNTRY THAT
WE LOVE. THANK YOU.
THANK YOU, IOWA. THANK YOU
SO MUCH.
>> PETE BUTTIGIEG DECLARING
VICTORY IN IOWA TONIGHT
EVEN THOUGH PRECINCTS HAVE NOT
REPORTED IN FOR MORE EXPLANATION
OF WHAT IS GOING ON, IT SOUNDS
LIKE PETE BUTTIGIEG GAVE HIS
VICTORY SPEECH AND I THINK THE
CANDIDATES ARE LIKE LET'S OKAY
LET'S DO BETTER NEXT TIME SPEECH
BUT THERE IS NO SPEECH IN THE
TOOLKIT FOR WHAT THE HECK JUST
HAPPENED.
>> THAT WAS THE SPEECH THAT HAD
BEEN PREWRITTEN AND IT WAS
MEDIAN SUBSTITUTE AND HISTORY
WILL NUMBER THAT. IF HE
ENDS UP WINNING FOR SOME REASON
WHEN ALL THE RESULTS COME IN, IT
WILL BE VALIDATED. IF RIVER
REASON HE FALL SHORTER FINISHES
SECOND OR THIRD, THAT WILL BE
WIDELY MOCKED AND THE HOWARD
DEAN SPEECH OF OUR TIME, TO
STAND UP AND GIVE AN ALL-OUT
DECLARATION OF VICTORY. BUT HE
PUT A LOT OF HIS EGGS ON THE
IOWA BASKET AND HE NEEDS
MOMENTUM COMING OUT
OF HERE TO RAISE MONEY AND TO
KEEP THINGS GOING AND CONTINUE
TO MAKE INROADS IN SOUTH
CAROLINA. SO IT IS SORT OF
UNDERSTANDABLE WHAT IS CALCULUS
IS THERE AND BERNIE SANDERS THAT
I ALSO FEEL GOOD ABOUT WHAT THE
NUMBERS SAY AND I THINK WE WILL
COME OUT ON TOP, BUT PETE
BUTTIGIEG DECLARING VICTORY. AND
MAYBE IT IS BASED ON SOMETHING
AT THE ENTRANCE POLES THAT ARE
PUBLIC THAT SHOW PETE BUTTIGIEG
DID
QUITE WELL AS EVERYONE SECOND
CHOICE BECAUSE HE WAS SORT OF
THE SILVER MEDALIST AS OUR
COLLEAGUE PUT IT IN A POST
REVIEWING THE DATA WHICH
WAS, LIBERALS
SAW HIM AS THE SECOND CHOICE AND
MODERATES SAW HIM AS THEIR
SECOND CHOICE AND THAT IS NOT A
BAD PLACE TO BE RIGHT NOW IN A
FIELD OF FIVE OR SIX SERIOUS
CONTENDERS TO BE AND EVERYONE
SECOND CHOICE CANDIDATE.
>> THERE ARE LIKE THREE TICKETS
OUT OF IOWA EVERYBODY HAS A
TICKET TONIGHT.
>> THAT IS ONE OF THE THINGS
THAT IF THERE WERE PROBLEMS WITH
THE SECOND BALLOT OR THE
REALIGNMENT, IT REALLY WON'T
PLAY
THE FIELD. THIS NEW HAMPSHIRE
THING WILL END UP PLAYING THAT
ROLE IN EIGHT DAYS TIME. I THINK
IT IS TOO EARLY TO SAY THAT
PEOPLE AREN'T GOING TO COMPETE
IN IOWA AT THIS TIME BECAUSE
PEOPLE HAVE AN INCENTIVE TO
COMPETE IN IOWA BUT THIS IS
DEFINITELY GOING TO UNDERMINE
THE STATE'S CREDIBILITY.
>> BEFORE HE TALKED ABOUT THE
OVERALL NIGHT, I WANT YOU TO
REACT ABOUT THE
BUDDHA JUDGE, PETE BUTTIGIEG
SPEECH.
>> IT WAS INSPIRING BUT
CONFUSING BECAUSE IT WAS NOT
CLEAR WHAT HE WAS CITING AS
BEING THE SOURCE OF HIS VICTORY.
SO I THINK
THE REACTION ON SOCIAL MEDIA,
ESPECIALLY FROM PEOPLE OUTSIDE
OF HIS CAMP WERE UPSET AND JUST
MOCKING HIM, AND IT WILL BE
INTERESTING TO SEE WHEN
EVERYTHING IS SAID
AND DONE, WHAT IT WAS THAT HE
WAS SAYING SPECIFICALLY BECAUSE
I TRUST HIS CAMPAIGN IS LOOKING
AT SOMETHING THAT LED HIM TO
RESPOND THE WAY THAT HE DID AND
IT'S NOT CLEAR TO US RIGHT NOW
WHAT IT IS. WHEN EVERYTHING IS
SAID AND DONE, IT COULD BE VERY
POSSIBLE THAT HE IS RIGHT, BUT
IT COULD BE POSSIBLE THAT HIS
SPEECH PERHAPS WAS
WRITTEN WITHOUT FOR KNOWLEDGE OF
HOW EVERYTHING PANNED OUT
TONIGHT.
>> I GUESS THE QUESTION IS ONCE
WE DO KNOW THE RESULTS BACK AND
THEY SAY IF THEY COME IN NOT
FIRST BUT SOMEWHERE IN THAT TOP
THREE, THAT IS VICTORY FOR US
BECAUSE WE CAME IN AS THE
UNDERDOG AND A MAYOR FROM SOUTH
BEND AND THIS IS THE QUOTE
UNQUOTE VICTORY. THE METRIC IS
DEBATABLE.
>> I THINK IT IS TRUE.
WHEN EVERYTHING IS RELEASED AND
MADE PUBLIC, IF THEY DO SAY PAST
THAT SUGGESTED THEY WERE
VICTORIOUS, THEY WILL POINT TO
IT.
>> WHAT IS YOUR REACTION?
>> ELECTIONS WITHOUT RESULTS,
LIKE WE JUST HAD OUR GREAT. IT
IS LIKE CHILDREN'S SPORTS.
EVERYBODY GETS A TROPHY AND
EVERYBODY TONIGHT GOT A TROPHY
AND EVERYBODY TONIGHT CLAIMED
WHATEVER THEY WANTED TO CLAIM,
AND THEY ARE RIGHT TO DO IT, I
THINK, BECAUSE YOU KNOW WHAT,
EVERY MINUTE THAT
PASSED TONIGHT THE RESULTS OF
IOWA BECAME LESS AND LESS
IMPORTANT AND PEOPLE OF
TUNED OUT NOW AND PEOPLE ARE NOT
PAYING ATTENTION AND TOMORROW
YOU OF THE STATE OF THE UNION
AND IMPEACHMENT COMING AFTER
THAT IN THE FIRST CONTEST THIS
YEAR IS FRANKLY NEW HAMPSHIRE AT
THIS POINT. WE WILL GET RESULTS
AND WE WILL TRY AND COMPARE
THOSE RESULTS TO THE DIFFERENT
STORIES THAT
EVERYBODY HAD, BUT IN THE END, I
THINK THE RESULTS FROM IOWA ARE
NOT GOING TO BE
THAT IMPORTANT. AND NOW YOU SEE
ALL OF THESE CANDIDATES
BASICALLY TURNING TOWARD NEW
HAMPSHIRE AND NEVADA AND SOUTH
CAROLINA. AND LET'S REMEMBER,
IF IOWA
DOESN'T MATTER EXCEPT FOR THE
FACT THAT IT IS FIRST AND EXCEPT
FOR THE FACT THAT IT CREATES
THIS MOMENTUM AND ALL FOR THE
STATES ARE ONLY PRODUCING LESS
THAN 4% OF THE DELEGATES IN THIS
CONTEST. SO IT IS REALLY NOT AT
ALL THE CASE THAT THESE RESULTS
WHEN THEY COME OUT, IF THEY ARE
SLIGHTLY DIFFERENT FROM THE WAY
SOMEBODY PRESENTED THEM ON
ELECTION NIGHT, THEY WILL BE
TAKEN PARTICULARLY SERIOUSLY. I
THINK FRANKLY AGAIN WHAT I SAID
BEFORE AND I THINK YOU ARE
RIGHT TOO, JAMES, THAT BLOOMBERG
I THINK IS A WINNER OUT OF THIS
IN THE CLOSER WE GET TO THE
SUPER TUESDAY STATES WITHOUT A
CLEAR WINNER AND WITHOUT THE
PARTY HAVING A SENSE OF WHO IS
THE ALTERNATIVE LET'S SAY TO
BERNIE SANDERS OR
JOE BIDEN, WHICH CANDIDATES ARE
DOING WELL AND RESONATING WITH
VOTERS. THE LONGER WE GO INTO
THAT, THE BETTER THAT IS FOR
SOMEBODY LIKE BLOOMBERG WHO IS
SORT OF WAITING THERE HOPING
THAT JOE BIDEN DOES NOT DO
PARTICULARLY WELL, AND THE
WINNER BEYOND THAT IS DONALD
TRUMP AND THIS MAY VERY WELL BE
THE THING THAT PUSHES US WHAT WE
MAY HAVE HAD ANYWAY, BUT THIS
MAY BE MAKE IT MORE LIKELY A
VERY LONG AND DRAWN OUT PROCESS
WERE A LOT
OF PEOPLE BUILD UP A LOT OF
DELEGATES AND STAY IN THE RACE
FOR A VERY LONG TIME.
>> EUGENE, AS WE LOOK AT WINNERS
AND LOSERS, BUT STILL PART OF
THE POLITICAL CONVERSATION, REAL
CONCERNS ABOUT THE IOWA
DEMOCRATIC PARTY TONIGHT, BUT IS
IOWA A BIT OF A LOSER BECAUSE
THERE HAS BEEN THIS QUESTION
MIKE JULIAN CASTRO RAISED IS HOW
REFLECTIVE IS IOWA OR RELEVANT
TO
THE NATIONAL
DEMOCRAT OR PEOPLE WHO LIVE
ACROSS THE COUNTRY.
>> HE TWEETED TONIGHT DURING ALL
OF THIS AND SAID THIS IS A MESS
AND IT IS CONFUSING AND NOT
REALLY CLEAR TO A LOT OF FOLKS.
I THINK PEOPLE ARE LEFT ASKING
THEMSELVES WHY DID THE CAUCUS
NEED TO HAPPEN AND WHAT ARE
THESE NEW RULES AND ARE THEY
EFFECT LIVE AND THEY WORK IN THE
BEST INTEREST OF EVERYONE
INVOLVED. I THINK IOWA HAS PUT
ITSELF IN A POSITION WHERE IT
HAS TO MAKE A CASE FOR ITSELF
AGAIN AFTER A NIGHT THAT DID NOT
FINISH THE WAY THEY HOPED
IT WOULD AND THEY MAY NOT BE
ABLE TO CONVINCE PEOPLE THE NEXT
TIME THAT THIS IS THE BEST
OPTION.
>> THE FINAL THOUGHT FOR ME
TONIGHT BECAUSE WE WILL WRAP UP
DESPITE THE FACT WE HAVE NO
RESULTS TO REPORT AND WE WILL
CALL IT A NIGHT PRETTY SOON.
WHAT ARE YOUR FINAL THOUGHTS?
>> WE ARE GOING INTO THE NEXT
DAY WITH A LOT OF THE SAME
QUESTIONS. WE HAD STARTING THE
SHOW UNANSWERED THE SAME THINGS.
I WILL SAY SOME OF THE PEOPLE
WERE FEARING THAT THINGS COULD
BE CLOSE TO
OVER TONIGHT AND CLEARLY THAT IS
NOT BEEN THE CASE FOR THEM AND
WE WILL SEE WHAT HAPPENS IN NEW
HAMPSHIRE.
>> FINAL THOUGHTS?
>> I
DON'T KNOW THAT THIS WILL
CHEAPEN THE IOWA CAUCUS GOING
FORWARD. I SUSPECT THAT IS NOT
THE CASE AND CANDIDATES IF IT IS
THE FIRST CAUCUS CANDIDATES WILL
SORT OF COME HERE AND MAKE THEIR
PITCH AND HOPE THEY WILL PULL A
JIMMY CARTER BY APPEARING OUT OF
NOWHERE AND ENDING UP WINNING
THE NOMINATION, BUT I DO THINK
THIS IS LIKELY BAD FOR THE HOPES
OF QUICK UNITY IN THE DEMOCRATIC
PARTY. I THINK IT IS SOMETHING
VERY MUCH THREATENED
RIGHT NOW. AND TONIGHT'S LACK OF
RESULTS CERTAINLY HAVE NOT
PUSHED US AND A DIRECTION THAT
WILL LEAD TO THAT UNITY.
>> ONE QUESTION I HAVE IS SHORT
MEMORIES VERSUS LONG MEMORIES IN
THE LAST CAUCUS HAD TO REAL
CONTENDERS AND THREE TECHNICALLY
BUT THE LAST REPUBLICAN CAUCUS
WITH THE LAST REPUBLICAN CONTEST
WAS IT TOOK
A WHILE AND IT WASN'T WHO WAS
GOING TO COME OUT ON TOP BUT IT
TOOK MANY STATES AND MANY
PRIMARIES TO GET TO SOMEWHERE.
ARE WE EXPECTING TOO MUCH
TOO SOON.
>> IT IS INTERESTING BECAUSE A
LOT OF STATES HAVE FRONTLOADED
THEIR PRIMARIES TO SUPER TUESDAY
AND THE POOR STATES ARE THE
WINNERS OF THE FIELD AND THE
REALITY OF WHAT YOU EXPLAIN AND
2016 WAS DOWN AND THE MAJORITY
OF THE REPUBLICAN PARTY DIDN'T
WANT TRUMP TO BE THE NOMINEE
UNTIL HE WAS AND UNTIL AFTER
HE WAS, BUT THEY COULDN'T AGREE
WHETHER IT SHOULD BE JOHN KASICH
OR RUBIO OR TED CRUZ TO STOP HIM
BECAUSE THE
FIRST STATES DIDN'T MOVE IN THE
FIELD AND TRUMP WAS UNSTOPPABLE
AND HE ACCUMULATED DELEGATES AND
YOU COULD HAVE A SITUATION HERE
OR BLOOMBERG --
I BET TONIGHT WILL PROMPT
BLOOMBERG TO SPEND $100 MILLION
MORE ON TV ADS THAT HE IS
ALREADY SPENDING. I THINK IF THE
FIRST FOUR STATES DON'T WINDOW
IT IT INCREASES THE ODDS AND
MAYBE TOMORROW MORNING WE WILL
HAVE CLEAR RESULTS AND IT WILL
HAVE A BIG IMPACT, BUT TONIGHT,
UNQUESTIONABLY IT RAISES THE
ODDS OF WHATEVER THOSE ODDS
ARE OF GOING INTO THE MILWAUKEE
CONVENTION IN JULY NOT KNOWING
FOR SURE WHO THE NOMINEE IS. IT
MEANS SOMEONE GOT REALLY
HARMED TONIGHT. AND WE WON'T
KNOW FOR A WHILE WHO THAT PERSON
IS AND IF AMY KLOBUCHAR DID
REALLY WELL AND COULD HAVE HAD A
REAL MOMENT, SHE WAS
DENIED THAT. IF JOE BIDEN DID
VERY POORLY, HE WAS KIND OF
SAVED AND OF PETE BUTTIGIEG --
IT IS ONE OF THOSE THINGS THAT
WE WON'T KNOW AND WE GET THE
RESULTS, BUT SOMEBODY WAS DENIED
THERE OPPORTUNITY TO REALLY
CLAIM THE NATIONAL SPOTLIGHT AND
IT IS UNFORTUNATE FOR THE
PROCESS BECAUSE THEY SPEND $40
MILLION ON TELEVISION ADS IN
IOWA AND A YEAR CAMPAIGNING AND
THEN SOMEBODY ONE BUT TO NOT BE
ABLE TO TAKE THAT
VICTORY LAP, FOR ANY OF THEM,
WOULD BE DEEPLY FRUSTRATING.
>> THANK YOU SO MUCH TO ALL OF
YOU FOR JOINING US TONIGHT AND
JAMES AND EUGENE AND ALEX THANK
YOU FOR BEING HERE AS WELL AND
THANK YOU FOR JOINING
US ON WHAT TURNED OUT TO BE A
FRUSTRATING AND CONFUSING CAUCUS
NIGHT AND INSTEAD OF RESULTS THE
HEADLINE IS THIS,
INCONSISTENCIES AND INSTEAD OF
COUNTING A WINNER, THE IOWA
DEMOCRATIC PARTY ENDS THE NIGHT
BEGGING FOR PATIENTS AS A
CONDUCTS QUALITY CHECKS AND IT
IS ONLY MONDAY IN
IOWA, BUT BUCKLE YOUR SEATBELTS.
WE WILL BE LIVE FOR THE STATE OF
THE UNION TOMORROW NIGHT IT'D A
CLOCK P.M. AND THE WASHINGTON
POST WILL ALSO BE LIVE FOR THE
IMPEACHMENT VOTE ON WEDNESDAY
WITH COVERAGE STARTING AT 3:00
P.M. EASTERN IN MY FROM NEW
HAMPSHIRE NEXT TUESDAY FOR THAT
PRIMARY NIGHT. THANK YOU FOR
CHOOSING THIS WILD 2020 WEEK
WITH US AT THE WASHINGTON POST.
I AM LIBBY CASEY. HAVE A GOOD
NIGHT.